<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c01_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c01_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_3" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="3" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c01" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">1</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c01-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c01-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">Have you ever watched the first video uploaded to YouTube?</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">It's an important question. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">No really, it matters. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">I don't think it matters just because I'm a YouTube expert and think it's high‐quality content (spoiler alert: it's not). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">I think it matters because it's history, and we can learn so much from history. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.5">As a video guy, I love documentaries and biopics. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.6">They fascinate me because learning about the past helps us understand and navigate our world in the present. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.7">When we explore history, we see how decisions and events affect people, whether for good or bad, and how they impact people's families, communities, and ultimately, the entire world.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">But why the heck am I talking about the impact of history on the world in a book that's supposed to be about YouTube and making you money? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">I'll tell you why: studying the history of anything can benefit someone who wants to learn more about that topic and succeed in that space. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">It should be obvious that the same applies to YouTube creators as well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.4">I truly believe that if creators and businesses will take the time to learn from YouTube's history—how it became the mega‐platform that it is based on decisions that lead to failure and </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_4" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="4" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">success—they will become better content creators and businesses and be more equipped to generate their own success on the platform.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">So how did YouTube start, and how does that affect you and your content?</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">In July 2002, the prestigious start‐up company PayPal had just been acquired by eBay for $1.5 billion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">This created a lot of buzz in Silicon Valley. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.3">Ideas were being tossed around for websites, apps, and platforms that could possibly bring in a lot of money and transform the world into a digital money‐making giant. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.4">Three PayPal employees, Jawed Karim, Chad Hurley, and Steven Chen, were some of these idea generators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.5">They soon came up with the idea for the YouTube website, but it was nothing like the website we are familiar with today—they started it as a dating website.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">From their makeshift office in a garage, the domain name “</span><a href="http://youtube.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">YouTube.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">” was activated on February 14, 2005, Valentine's Day—the perfect day of the year to start a dating website. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">On April 23, they uploaded YouTube's first video called “Me at the zoo.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">It was 19 seconds of Karim at the San Diego Zoo talking about the elephants. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">If you go and watch it now, you'll laugh because you know he was trying to get the website to be a place to find a date, and he makes an innuendo about the anatomy of the elephant. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.5">The video was actually pretty good quality for nonprofessionals at the time.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">Now that they had the ball rolling and the servers going, these guys needed active website users. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">Who was the demographic of people looking for love? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">College‐age students. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">So they pitched at the nearest university campus, Stanford, and canvased pretty heavily, passing out flyers to everyone who would take one. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">Their slogan was, “Tune in, hook up.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.6">There were virtually no videos on the site yet, so they uploaded footage of 747 planes taking off and landing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.7">There was no rhyme or reason; they just wanted videos on there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.8">“The whole thing didn't make any sense,” Karim said. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.9">“We were so desperate for some actual dating videos, whatever that even means, that we turned to the </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_5" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="5" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">website any desperate person would turn to: Craigslist.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">They ran the ad in Los Angeles and Las Vegas, offering to pay women $20/video to upload videos of themselves. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">They got exactly zero responses.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">Here is where it gets interesting and applicable: Once people began using their “dating” website, the trio looked at the data coming in those first few weeks and months, and they realized that the website's handful of users were not coming for dating at all; they were coming for self‐broadcasting. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">They were posting videos of themselves and their friends doing funny or embarrassing or weird things. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">They were posting videos of their pets, videos of snowboarding, videos of random places and things, and the like.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">At this critical juncture, Karim, Hurley, and Chen had a decision to make: should they continue to push YouTube as a dating website as planned, or should they change their business model entirely because the data showed that the usership was not the I‐want‐a‐date crowd? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">“Forget the dating aspect,” said Chen. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">“Let's just open it up to any video.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.4">Herein the power of YouTube was born. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.5">Based on the data feedback, they switched gears and catered to what the users wanted.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">In June, they created tools that encouraged self‐broadcasting. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">They supplied a growing ecosystem of whatever random videos were being uploaded by the people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">They launched an “embed” video option that became a game changer for websites and promotion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">In short, they gave self‐video creators the platform and the control to share their videos with the world from anywhere in the world, because that's what the people wanted. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">These website users were not looking to hook up on YouTube; they were finding a place to put their work and their creativity.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">That decision to pivot led to YouTube becoming the most powerful video platform in the world and disrupted the entertainment industry as we knew it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">It was a game changer in video entertainment, taking creation from the hands of the few to the hands of everyone, if they so desired. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">With access to a recording device and an Internet </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_6" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="6" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">connection, anyone could broadcast a video to the entire world! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">This is the norm today, but think about how monumental it was in the beginning. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">Big businesses and brands started to pay attention, changing their content creation and advertising strategies. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.4">With power shifting to the regular joes, brands seized on the opportunity to sponsor creators who had a unique, organic viewership. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.5">Big business had never had this kind of competition before, and it was a force to be reckoned with.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">The website continued to grow quickly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">Google saw the early potential of the site, and they acquired YouTube in 2006 for $1.65 billion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">Today, more than one‐third of all Internet mobile traffic comes from YouTube traffic. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.4">There are more than a billion combined hours watched on YouTube every day, and almost two billion logged‐in users visit the site every month. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.5">Nearly 100 countries have local versions of the platform available to them.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Do you think all of this would have happened if the guys had ignored the data feedback, deciding to stick to their original plan, and insisting that YouTube had to be a dating website? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">They had tried the dating website, and it had failed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">So they focused on the problem, analyzed what was working and why, and they adjusted their strategies to support more of that.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">YouTube's origin story is the ultimate meta‐example of how to try, fail, analyze, and adjust to succeed on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">This formula </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">is</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1"> the YouTube Formula. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">Understanding its history will help you as a creator or business understand how to utilize the formula for your own success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">You have to analyze what's working and what's not, and make changes accordingly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">This is the premise on which the whole book is built. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.5">If you can grasp this “big idea” foundational formula, you're starting out on the right foot, and you're ready to learn the step‐by‐step tweaks that make all the difference in the wide world of YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_7" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="7" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">In </span><a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">Part I</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">, I break down the algorithm so you know exactly how the YouTube platform works in order to become a part of it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">In </span><a href="p02.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">Part II</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">, I open your eyes to the endless opportunities available on YouTube—opportunities for exposure, artistry, collaboration, sponsorship, merchandising, and business ownership. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">I tell you how all different kinds of creators and businesses have seized on these opportunities and gone beyond “making a living” from YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.3">There is so much money to be made in so many ways on YouTube, but even more, there is so much power in influence. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.4">I can show you how your influence can make a big difference.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">In </span><a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">Part III</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">, I dissect the YouTube Formula for content planning, creation, execution, distribution, analysis, and adjustment. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">I teach you how to find your audience, speak to them, and convert them into your own loyal community. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">I teach you the importance of traffic sources so you know where the viewers come from and how you can get your content seen. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.4">I help you read metrics graphs so you can recognize data patterns. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.5">Your YouTube success depends on developing these skills, so get ready to learn and embrace them.</span></p>
<p id="c01-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">I've helped countless YouTube channels tap into growth opportunities they could not see on their own. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">And I've helped creators and brands learn the steps to get views, make money, and build businesses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">If you follow the Formula and open your mind to the opportunities I am going to show you, you can get the results you've always wanted on YouTube.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
