<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>2 The YouTube Ecosystem</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c01.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c03.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c02_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c02_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_9" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="9" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c02" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">2</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">The YouTube Ecosystem</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c02-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c02-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">In order for us to understand how YouTube really works, first we need to look at how it operates as a digital ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">A digital ecosystem works much like a natural ecosystem: there are a lot of moving parts, and all of those parts affect the organization as a whole. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">Grade‐school science taught us about energy flow in a natural ecosystem; photosynthesis, plants and animals, decomposition, and nutrient conversion are all part of the cycle. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">Every factor in the chain has its job to do, and if it doesn't work right, it affects the entire operation.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">YouTube's ecosystem also has a flow and cycle, and its contributors affect the whole, for better or for worse. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">This digital ecosystem includes the creator, the viewer, the advertiser/brand, copyright holders, multichannel networks (MCNs), and YouTube itself.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">Here's a quick summary of how the YouTube ecosystem works: creators make videos and upload them to YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">Brands pay YouTube to run advertising alongside uploaded content, either before or during a video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">When a channel meets the ad sharing program requirements, it gets a cut of the money from the ads running on their content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.4">Brands also connect with creators who they think will </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_10" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="10" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">be able to increase brand awareness and/or their bottom line. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">This influencer marketing is a huge part of YouTube's ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">The viewers come to interact with content, creators, and communities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">They watch, subscribe, comment, like and dislike, save, and share. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.5">YouTube as a website is the host of the ecosystem, but as a company, it's a part of the ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.6">YouTube the company has to make sure everyone in the ecosystem is satisfied. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.7">They field complaints and legalities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.8">They ultimately make the rules, but the rules evolve over time based on feedback from the ecosystem and what needs to be addressed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.9">MCNs played an important role in the beginning of YouTube, connecting brands with creators and managing other elements of the creator experience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.10">They also helped try to problem‐solve because YouTube didn't have the creator support at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.11">Creators don't have to work with MCNs; they can manage their own channels and deal directly with brands or work with agencies to connect with brands. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.12">Finally, copyright holders want their original work attributed to them without being stolen or copied. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.13">They want to keep any financial benefit from that content coming back to their original content.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">To be a part of this digital ecosystem, understand the role each contributor plays, especially the role you intend to occupy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">For example, if you are a creator, become familiar with YouTube's guidelines so your content can get monetized and stay monetized. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">Don't steal or copy someone else's content, but if you intend to use clips of scenes or songs or any other copyrighted material, know how to go about it legally. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">Your content's success depends on your understanding your role in the ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.5">Your YouTube experience should be more than starting a channel and uploading videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.6">In fact, if this is your methodology, your video will never reach viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.7">YouTube rewards original content that's made for a specific audience, so if you learn the system and follow the rules, your videos have a greater chance of being seen.</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_11" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="11" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-1" class="calibre2"><span id="c02-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-1" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">Beware of Copyright</span></h2>
<p id="c02-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">The first consideration in the ecosystem should be the viewer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">If nobody is coming around to watch, the rest of the ecosystem is dead in the water. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.3">When YouTube was new, the viewers were a fairly specific demographic because the content was fairly specific. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.4">People were uploading personal videos to share with their friends and family, so there was an audience there, but where the viewership really had the potential to grow pushed in the entertainment direction. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.5">People were uploading clips from TV shows, movies, comedy bits, and the like. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.6">Viewers were also coming to find clips from popular culture and the news. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.7">It was easy to upload this stuff, and it was easy for the viewers to find.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">From 2005 to early 2007, YouTube users had been uploading content generally unregulated and unsupervised. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">This included a lot of original content, sure, but it also included protected content that had been created by another person or company. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">Obviously, this was a direct infringement to the copyright holder of that content.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">It's important to note here that YouTube users weren't doing this sneakily or maliciously. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">They just wanted to share things they loved, and it was so easy to do. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">Do you remember Napster from the turn of the century? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">For those of you born in the 2000s, let me tell you a story.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">Imagine a world where you couldn't listen to your favorite music on demand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">The only way to hear your favorite song was to sit by the radio all day, waiting. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">If you wanted to listen on demand, you had to buy the entire album that included the one song you wanted to hear. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">Then along came Napster. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">Napster was the original widespread file‐sharing platform. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.6">Like, </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">the</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1"> pioneer of all digital media sharing on the Internet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">Audio files, mostly songs, were shared as MP3 format files, and anyone could download any file for free. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">FREE! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.4">This was huge for music fans all over the world—the people </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_12" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="12" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">loved Napster. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">Who wouldn't want unlimited access to their favorite bands for exactly zero dollars? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">Well, I guess not quite everyone was a Napster fan … namely, anyone who should be making money from music sales.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">If you don't know the rest of the story, I bet you can guess what happened next. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Lawsuits. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">Shut down. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">No surprises here. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">Actually, just before Napster was created, Bill Clinton, then‐president of the United States, had signed the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) into law in 1998. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.6">The DMCA has regulated digital copyright issues and reinforced offender penalties ever since. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.7">(However, websites hosted outside the US are regulated by the United Nations World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).) What happened with Napster set the stage for media sharing regulation from that point forward.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">YouTube could have looked at companies like Napster as examples of what not to do, and implemented their Content ID system from the time they opened up shop in 2005, but they didn't. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">In March 2007, a little company called Viacom, along with several others, sued Google and YouTube for $1 billion worth of copyright infringement issues. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">Reuters reported that YouTube was only taking copyrighted content off the site after a copyright owner had requested it, but there was nothing being done on the front end to prevent that content from being uploaded to begin with. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.4">Further, the lawsuit claimed that YouTube knowingly let this happen because they were making money on all that content.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">The Content ID system wouldn't be implemented until 2007, the beta in June and full rollout in December. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">The ID system would attach a unique “digital fingerprint” to new uploaded content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">Content could then be tracked and measured against already existing copyrighted content so YouTube could catch infractions.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">Now that the law had been involved, YouTube had to settle some things for copyright holders. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">First, they literally had to settle that </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_13" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="13" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">hefty lawsuit (the terms of settlement were undisclosed), but they also had to settle how they would proceed from there, and the Content ID system was the answer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">I can't stress enough how monumental this was to YouTube's success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">YouTube likely would have followed the fate of the original Napster and been shut down if the Content ID system hadn't been implemented, and a lot of creators and businesses like you and me would be doing something else. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.4">It was a total game changer.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-2" class="calibre2"><span id="c02-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-2" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">Ad Revenue Sharing</span></h2>
<p id="c02-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">In 2007, while the big copyright problem was simmering down, YouTube added two features that would make a similarly huge impact on its future. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">These features would be problematic in some ways, but also they would significantly change advertising and how creators could make a living from YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">Which features could be this consequential? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.4">(1) In‐video advertisements and (2) the Partner Program.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">Advertisements on YouTube have evolved a lot over time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">They used to be display ads or they appeared underneath the content, but with these changes, ads would pop up right in the content where the viewer was looking. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">And now the creator of that content could be compensated via ad revenue sharing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">This is how the YouTube Partner Program began. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.5">Creators became super motivated to make good content that would get more viewers watching, because now, more views equaled more money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.6">Creators and businesses really wanted to be YouTube Partners!</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">Unfortunately, this also meant that creators realized they could use tactics to get people to click on their videos, even if those tactics were divertive. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">Their aggressive “bait‐and‐switch” strategies included misleading titles, sensational thumbnails, and superficial content that strayed from the original purpose of the video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">They wanted to </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_14" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="14" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">get people to click on their videos at any cost so they could produce revenue from the ads being integrated with their content.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">Let's not forget the first member in the YouTube ecosystem here: the viewer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">This new ad sharing program created a big problem with viewer satisfaction. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.3">People began spending less time on YouTube because of the in‐your‐face ads and because of clickbaiting that hinted at what they were looking for but actually didn't satisfy that end at all in the content itself. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.4">In short, viewers felt tricked and unsatisfied.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">In addition, many YouTube viewers got angry at these “sell‐out” creators who ran ads in conjunction with their content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">They even went so far as to join channel boycott movements against creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">Seeing ads today is just part of the online experience, but back then, it was such a big deal that it interrupted the ecosystem.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">As you can see, the integration of the Partner Program further complicated YouTube's delicate ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">Keeping advertisers happy was an obvious priority because that's where the money came from, but YouTube also had to keep creators and viewers happy to achieve this, and the task was proving to be extremely difficult. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.3">Creators wanted their fair share in ad revenue without being labeled a sell‐out, and viewers wanted to watch content without feeling tricked or sitting through ads on every video.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">Let's pause here for a minute. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.2">Before we run away with all the problems the Partner Program created, I want to emphasize how monumental its existence was. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.3">Google had pioneered advertisement revenue sharing with its AdSense program, and they implemented that program with YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.4">They took it to another level going from display ads to video ads, because video ads were more effective. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.5">They could charge advertisers more money for video ads, so YouTube made more money this way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.6">Because YouTube didn't create their own website content, they had to incentivize creators to make good content that would get people coming to the platform.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_15" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="15" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">AdSense was the origin of advertisement revenue sharing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">This was absolutely uncharted territory! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">It was like the great California gold rush, but it was the gold rush for digital marketing in the twenty‐first century. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.4">Companies had never offered a portion of their revenue to the general public before!</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">YouTube said, more or less, “Hey folks, if you make good content that viewers will come and watch on our website, we'll share some of the advertisement money we get with you.”</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">And creators were like, “Wait, really? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">You mean I can get compensated for my hobby? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">Potentially earning enough that I can replace my boring nine‐to‐five income doing something I actually like, and can make more money doing? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.4">Well, then I'm going to make the best darn videos you ever saw!” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.5">And the gold rush was on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.6">The channel owners grabbed their pickaxes, installed sluice gates, and started panning for gold.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">So many creators, businesses, and advertisers saw the potential for massive payout with ad sharing, and they wanted in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">The risk was that they might not actually make any money if they didn't get viewers, but the opportunity was worth the risk, and it paid off big for so many of them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.3">This was a genius move by YouTube! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.4">They were enlisting a worldwide army of creators to do the grunt work to get visitors to their website for a piece of the revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.5">Channel owners were ready to compete against each other for a chunk of the gold.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">Advertising companies could get into this market very inexpensively. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">They could track their market, get a lot of eyes on their product quickly without expensive campaigns, and they could do it for literally a fraction of traditional marketing cost. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">A lot of big brands and businesses gave it a snooty pass because they just didn't realize what they were missing in the beginning. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.4">They were too good for it.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">One of my favorite examples of a YouTube advertising success story comes from a product called Orabrush. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">Orabrush is a tongue </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_16" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="16" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">cleaner that was invented in the early 2000s by a guy named Robert Wagstaff, aka “Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.2">Bob.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.3">Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.4">Bob had tried to market his tongue cleaner via traditional product‐pitching means, but the companies he approached wanted nothing to do with it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.5">He even invested a lot of his personal money to run an infomercial. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.6">It flopped. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.7">So at the ripe old age of 75, Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.8">Bob turned to a marketing class at his local university and asked if anybody had any bright ideas.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">My good friend Jeffrey Harmon was a student in that class, and he told Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">Bob that he thought they could sell the product online with a YouTube video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.3">He took on the tongue cleaner project with the promise of Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.4">Bob's personal motorcycle as payment for the campaign. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.5">Jeffrey and some creative friends made their YouTube video for just a few hundred dollars, and it went viral. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.6">People wanted to know where they could buy Orabrush in their own locations, and distributors started to pay attention.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">An ad campaign like this had never been done on YouTube, but Jeffrey saw its potential. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.2">“We took a product from zero sales anywhere to worldwide distribution,” Jeffrey told me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.3">“And we didn't do it with traditional marketing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.4">It was 100% YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.5">We couldn't have made it happen any other way.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.6">Orabrush became a multimillion‐dollar brand that is sold in more than two dozen countries in 30,000‐plus stores.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">For the record, Orabrush's YouTube channel has more than 38 million video views to date. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">For a tongue brush. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.3">Orabrush was acquired by DenTek in 2015.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">YouTube leveled the playing field for a small‐town, old‐man inventor and a few college kids. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">They had access to the market that was simply unavailable to regular people before YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.3">It literally changed the trajectory of their lives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.4">Jeffrey Harmon became cofounder and chief marketing officer at Orabrush and has gone on to cofound the Harmon Brothers marketing agency with his three brothers, where they have created extremely successful online </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_17" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="17" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">campaigns for PooPourri, Squatty Potty, Purple, Lume, and many more businesses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.2">Others who worked on the original campaign also have made successful careers out of the path that was set from Orabrush's beginning.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">Another friend of mine, Shay Carl Butler, began his YouTube career way back in 2006 and was one of the original Partners, so if anyone has a good handle on how the program began and how it has changed ever since, it would be him. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">“The YouTube Partner Program was so exciting in the beginning, and everyone who knew about it wanted a piece,” Shay Carl said. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.3">“YouTube had a lot of problems to work out. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.4">I remember when it seemed like everybody was mad at some point: viewers were mad at creators, creators were mad at creators, viewers and creators were mad at YouTube, and so on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.5">But YouTube has done a good job overall of working out the kinks.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.6">Shay Carl's personal channel is where he began in 2006, but he started his family channel, </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">Shaytards</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">, in 2008, and it has become the main YouTube lifeline for his family with around five million subscribers to date. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.2">We'll go into more detail about the Partner Program in </span><a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">Chapter 6</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">Because of this “digital gold rush” and the amount of creators and advertisers it brought in, YouTube was not equipped to respond to the masses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">This is where the multichannel networks came in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.3">MCNs offered to be the go‐between for other contributors in the YouTube ecosystem in exchange for a piece of the profit. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.4">They helped creators and businesses with audience growth, resources for production, and brand opportunities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.5">They matched advertisers with channels that suited their particular products or services. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.6">They dealt with rights management. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.7">They gave YouTube some breathing room to worry about other things. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.8">MCNs have had both good press and bad, but they did alleviate a lot of YouTube's headaches in those formative years of ad revenue sharing.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">I recently sat down with Jim Louderback, CEO of VidCon and former CEO of MCN company Revision3, and talked with him </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_18" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="18" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">about multichannel networks on my podcast </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">Creative Disruption.</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1"> He talked about how MCNs affected the early years of YouTube's ad revenue explosion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.2">We discussed the ways they helped, but also the problems they created. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.3">“In the end,” said Jim, “a lot of MCNs did not provide the value they offered. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.4">They brought on too many creators and brands to manage, and there wasn't enough revenue to go around.”</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1">Once YouTube had a better handle on operations, they offered their own Partner support rather than losing creators to outside MCNs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">In 2011, YouTube acquired Next New Networks, a company that had been managing a lot of YouTube's early creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">YouTube was ready to take back control internally and put that money back into their own pocket. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.4">For this reason and others—like fewer creators signing up, and a smaller margin of revenue per view—MCNs have seen a significant decline on YouTube in recent years.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-3" class="calibre2"><span id="c02-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-3" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">An Evolving, Thriving System</span></h2>
<p id="c02-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">As you can see, ad revenue sharing completely changed the YouTube ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">YouTube had been a minefield of instability in its fledgling years. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">They were learning the hard way that their ecosystem was a delicate balancing act—among its copyright holders, its viewers, its Partners, and its advertisers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.4">There has been an “Adpocalypse,” countless issues with the algorithm, FTC COPPA children's privacy issues, Adpocalypse 2.0, and more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.5">YouTube has learned to deal with the problems and tried to make changes to satisfy the masses, but it is a constant effort.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0035" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">When we come full circle back to the viewer, the first component in the ecosystem, we have to consider how much the viewer has changed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.2">YouTube really wants to have satisfied viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.3">Over the years, they have tried to modify their recommendation feature to </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_19" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="19" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">figure out exactly what each viewer might want to watch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.2">They know that happy viewers will stay around longer, and viewers who stay around longer will produce happy content creators and happy advertisers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.3">And the more the viewers watch, the more money everybody makes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.4">The thousands of changes that have been made to the algorithm over the years have literally paid off, so the better the algorithm gets, the happier everyone will be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.5">Get ready to dive deep into the algorithm in the next chapters.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0036" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">YouTube must be figuring out some things, though, because they have seen 31% year‐over‐year growth! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.2">In 2020, YouTube announced their revenue for the first time ever. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.3">In 2019, they made $15.15 billion, which was nearly double the year before! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.4">That is mind‐blowing, in both the amount of money and the percentage of growth. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.5">People watch more than five billion YouTube videos a day. </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1">Billion</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.2">To really grasp how much bigger a billion is than a million, consider this: one million seconds is roughly 11 days, while one billion seconds is 31½ </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">years</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.2">Now give a second thought to that $15.15 billion figure for YouTube's 2019 revenue, and gasp. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.3">And they are really only just getting started.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0037" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1">YouTube began as a dating website for a handful of college co‐eds in California in 2005. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">Now it reaches every corner of the globe on every device. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.3">Roughly one‐third of the entire population of the earth is watching YouTube regularly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.4">Again, we are talking in billions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.5">Where it used to be a specific demographic, the YouTube viewer is now </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">everyone</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">.</span></p>
<p id="c02-para-0038" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1">Creators and businesses can proactively position themselves to win on YouTube by learning about their own role in its ecosystem and the mechanics of a good channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.2">These are nonnegotiables if you want to succeed on the platform. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.3">Don't try to game the system; try to align yourself with YouTube's goals so fewer problems come up and you can focus on good content creation. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.4">YouTube has changed </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_20" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="20" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">exponentially since its inception, and its ecosystem has changed, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.2">If you want to be a part of that ecosystem, you have to understand how it works and how you can adapt to it, because it will continue to change. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.3">You can adapt intelligently by looking at the data YouTube gives you. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.4">I'll show you how the algorithm works and how to create and adjust from its data.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c01.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c03.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
