<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>3 The YouTube AI:A Deep Learning Machine</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c04.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c03_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c03_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_21" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="21" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c03" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">3</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c03-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c03-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">A YouTube creator who recognizes the need to adjust to the data     but doesn't have a clue how to do it is like a gardener who wants home‐grown produce but has never planted a seed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">Becoming a successful gardener doesn't happen overnight, and neither does becoming a YouTube pro. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">You have to grab a shovel and dig in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">There will be blisters on your metaphoric hands in the beginning, but as you develop your data‐digging muscles, you'll start to unbury a network of underground connections and discover a whole new world of the hows and whys of YouTube and what it takes to produce successful content.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">YouTube's artificial intelligence (AI) is an evolving structure in the digital ecosystem, and it takes work to understand and utilize, because it's malleable. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">You'll need to be malleable, too, meaning you have to adapt your strategies according to what's currently working. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">Your best chance at doing this successfully depends on your knowledge of the systems at play.</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_22" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="22" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-4" class="calibre2"><span id="c03-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-4" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">The AI Evolution</span></h2>
<p id="c03-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">As contemporary YouTube users, we have grown accustomed to the site dishing up what we like, unprompted, but it hasn't always been this way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">Initially, YouTube primarily was a place to find answers to our questions, like how to change a tire, and a place to be entertained, like watching cats play keyboards or laughing at kid videos, like “Charlie bit my finger.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">It was built on a simpler system that wasn't good at making recommendations. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">But YouTube today has a complex machine learning system that has gotten really good at guessing what people want. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.5">Let's take a closer look at how its AI has changed over time and why that matters to you.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">About 2011, YouTube started making system changes with one purpose in mind: get people to stay on the platform longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">A YouTube researcher working on this issue found some gaping holes in the framework. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">For example, a huge portion of YouTube viewers had gone mobile by then, and YouTube didn't have an accurate system for tracking user behavior on mobile devices. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">Palm to face. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.5">There was work to be done.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">Since July 2010, YouTube had been using a program called Leanback that queued up‐next videos that were ready to load after the video being watched was over. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">There was an initial increase in views, but soon they plateaued. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.3">They got the same results from a follow‐up AI program called Sibyl.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">YouTube joined forces with Google Brain, Google's machine learning team, whose AI development and tools were leaps ahead of the field. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">Their goal was to build a system with the Google Brain foundation. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.3">Their main objective continued to be viewer longevity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.4">On March 15, 2012, YouTube made the switch from a “View” algorithm that rewarded video view count to a “Watch time” algorithm that rewarded viewer duration. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.5">This AI followed the audience everywhere to ensure it found the right video to put in front of them. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_23" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="23" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">It had the capability to recommend adjacent videos rather than clone videos (“adjacent” meaning similar but different enough to keep interest). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">“Clone” videos inevitably pushed viewers off the platform because they were watching basically the same thing on repeat. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">More importantly, it would queue videos based on how long viewers had watched them instead of how many clicks and views they had gotten.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">YouTube's goal was for users to “watch more and click less,” meaning they didn't want viewers to have to click on a bunch of videos before finding what they wanted. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">The AI could match them better to content they liked so they could spend more time actually watching.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">This Watch time switch transformed YouTube's viewership—people did stay on the website longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">Misleading “bait‐and‐switch” tactics used by some creators were no longer being rewarded by the AI, because viewers left quickly when the content didn't deliver what the title and thumbnail promised. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">Viewers did stay to watch videos that delivered what they said they would, and the AI kept track of these videos with longer view duration and recommended them more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">Additionally, viewers stayed to watch what the AI recommended next because they were relevant to what they had already shown interest in.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">In other words, viewers were taking this new AI bait: hook, line, and sinker. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">The new YouTube AI got visitors to stick around, and the YouTube folks were over the moon about it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">They had been meticulously observing the data from the switch and waiting with collectively bated breath to see if it would work or flop. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">By May 2012, just a few short months after the new AI integration, the data showed that average watch time was </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">four times</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1"> what it had been the previous May. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">Collective sigh of relief.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">The YouTube AI has changed over time to create a personalized feed based on customization. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Its Homepage is no longer channel dominant but filled with a mix of videos directly chosen based </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_24" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="24" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">on individual viewing patterns and behaviors. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">It now suggests, with uncanny accuracy, what a viewer </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">might</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1"> want to watch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">This is a huge change from its surface recommendations. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">You're no longer dipping from the site (if you don't know what dipping is, ask a Gen Z kid) because the videos are just another version of the one you just watched—you're sticking around to click on the video that you've never seen before but are definitely drawn to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.4">It's as if YouTube hired a tailor to come in and take your measurements so he could build you an outfit you didn't even know you wanted. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.5">Who doesn't love the feel of something that fits like a glove? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.6">And that also doesn't look exactly like every other outfit you own?</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-5" class="calibre2"><span id="c03-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-5" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</span></h2>
<p id="c03-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">To explain further, let's rewind and reexamine the data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">After the turn of the first decade in the twenty‐first century, YouTube came face‐to‐face with some hard truths. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.3">First, their users were watching videos from a bunch of other platforms instead of coming to the site directly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.4">YouTube viewership was up, but only because people were watching YouTube videos that had been shared to big platforms like Facebook and Twitter. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.5">This made it impossible for YouTube to gather data about their consumers and to retain and monetize them.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">Another tough truth was that YouTube had different operating programs for different devices and applications, so they needed to collect the pieces and reboot an operating system in one place, directly from the source. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">Shockingly, at the time, YouTube didn't even have a dialed‐in system for analyzing mobile usage, which was an embarrassing realization because a huge percentage of viewership was mobile. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">Its digitally ancient mobile development was painfully slow, and something needed to be done about it, stat.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">Enter InnerTube in 2012: an interdepartmental program at YouTube HQ created to revamp algorithms and development from </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_25" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="25" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">the top down. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">InnerTube was resetting the system and observing its reboot in one place to ensure everything fell into place correctly and </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">quickly</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">It was imperative that implementations be made quickly and could be tested before applying across the board. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.3">If a new change didn't work, they needed to pull it promptly without it crippling the whole shebang. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.4">Then they would tweak and try again.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">Another vital piece to the reboot was utilizing deep learning machines. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">Google's AI had undergone several phases of development and usage, and it was getting better and better. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">Google's deep learning AI was now capable of using gigantic neural networks that got really good at things like recommendation and search. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.4">Deep learning goes beyond basic machine learning in that it's built to mimic human neural networks. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.5">It makes nonlinear conclusions.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">The input data for deep learning machines on YouTube came from the behavior of its users and monitored not only “positive” viewer behavior, like which videos they liked and kept watching, but also “negative” behavior, like which videos they skipped or even removed from their custom Homepage or “Up next” recommendations from YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">Monitoring both the positive and negative behavior of its users is vital to the algorithm's accuracy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.3">This neural network has gotten so good that it can even predict what to do with new or unfamiliar videos based on current user behavior. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.4">Saying, “It has a mind of its own,” is not much of a stretch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.5">The AI actually doesn't observe the total Internet behavior of a user; it only watches what happens on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.6">This matters because it's what maintains its pinpoint accuracy in recommendations.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">How?</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">Let's say you went to </span><a href="http://google.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">google.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1"> and typed “steakhouses in Los Angeles” in the search bar. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">Does that mean the next time you go to </span><a href="http://youtube.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">youtube.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1"> you want it to recommend videos on how to grill a perfect steak? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">Or that you want to take a video tour of LA? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">Probably not. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.4">But if you search, “How to grill the perfect rare steak,” directly </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_26" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="26" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">on YouTube's search bar and click on the first recommended video, the suggested videos that pop up next might be, “World's strongest man—full day of eating,” then, “How to clean a cast iron skillet.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">These secondary videos don't have anything to do with steak, but do you see how that viewer would be a likely candidate to continue clicking? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.3">That's a deep learning machine that knows what it's doing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.4">And YouTube and its ecosystem are direct benefactors, because when viewers watch more, everyone makes more money and gets more brand exposure.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-6" class="calibre2"><span id="c03-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-6" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</span></h2>
<p id="c03-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">YouTube recommends </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">hundreds of millions</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1"> of videos to users every single day, in dozens of different languages, in every corner of the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">Their suggestions account for 75% of the time people spend on the site.</span></p>
<p id="c03-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">In 2012, daily watch time averaged out at about a hundred million hours. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">In 2019, that average sits at a mind‐blowing one billion hours a day. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.3">One billion hours of video content being collectively consumed by viewers on one website every single day! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.4">Over this seven‐year span and thousands if not tens of thousands of tweaks and triggers, the deep learning AI has gotten </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">really</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1"> good at recommending videos to keep viewers watching longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">It has become an expert digital gardener who knows which product to harvest for each customer based on the videos they've been “feeding” on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.3">You can be a YouTube master gardener, too, when you arm yourself with the right tools. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.4">Just hang on to your shovel, because we are still breaking ground.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c04.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
