<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c05.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c07.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c06_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c06_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_57" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="57" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c06" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">6</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Make Money Partnering with YouTube</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c06-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">So you're ready to make money on YouTube … wait, you can make money on YouTube? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">How do you make money on YouTube? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">And you do this full time? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">How?</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">These are actual questions I get all the time when I tell people what I do for a living. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">The general population doesn't know and doesn't get it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">The first and easy answer is that you can start making money by becoming a member of the YouTube Partner Program (YPP). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">As you'll see, this is just the first drop in the bucket, but we'll get to the rest of it in the next few chapters.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">You remember from learning about the YouTube ecosystem in </span><a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">Chapter 2</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1"> that this program began in 2007 and was like the great California gold rush. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">Advertisement revenue sharing had never been done before Google's AdSense on </span><a href="http://google.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">google.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1"> and then </span><a href="http://youtube.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">youtube.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">, so this was a huge, brand‐new opportunity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">Creators could monetize their content if it performed well enough, so they did all they could to achieve this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">In other words, YPP raised the bar on quality content and reliable, perpetual quantity.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">I already told you that YouTube finally shared their annual earnings, claiming $15.15 billion revenue in 2019, but all of that money </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_58" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="58" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">didn't go directly to YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">A huge chunk of it went to creators in the Partner Program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">The program started out with a 45/55 split, which means YouTube took 45% of the revenue from ads running alongside content, while the creator of that content took 55%. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">The percentages are a little more complicated now because many factors are taken into consideration, but it's still a good return for creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">Monetization has been the number one reason for YouTube's success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.6">It also has helped people look at YouTube as a viable career path or business.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">Let me say that again: sharing revenue with the everyday people putting content on their website is what created exponential growth for </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">YouTube</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Yes, this changed the game for creators, but think how it changed everything for YouTube, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">It was a genius move. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">YouTube has so much money coming in because they began giving so much away. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">And because they were incentivizing creators, creators made better content that led to more visibility and views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.6">When the content is better, people want to watch it more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.7">The Partner Program is a brilliant win‐win‐win. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.8">Yes, that's three wins: for the YouTube ecosystem to thrive, everybody needs to be winning in the revenue triangle, including the creator, the advertiser, and the platform.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">Today, there is an endless rolling lineup of creators wanting to monetize, but in its earlier days, YouTube actually sought out creators to join the program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">Shaun and Mindy McKnight were among these early YPP recruits. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">They had been running a popular hairstyle blog and had uploaded a how‐to video to YouTube to embed on their website. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.4">Shaun and Mindy hadn't even been paying attention to what was happening on their YouTube channel </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">Cute Girls Hairstyles</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">, but it had gotten enough traffic that YouTube reached out asking if they wanted to join the Partner Program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">Shaun and Mindy made some fun “bonus” money in the beginning of their monetization, but they had no idea what lay ahead for them because of ad revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">Eventually, Shaun would quit his job, they would be the first YouTube family </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_59" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="59" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">with millions of subscribers, and their kids would have their own channels with millions of subs, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">More on this in the next chapter.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-18" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-18" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">Joining the Partner Program</span></h2>
<p id="c06-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">Now that you know you want to make money on YouTube—even if it's just because I'm telling you that you do—let's talk about how you're going to do it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">To get monetized and stay monetized, you must follow YPP's rules, no ifs, ands, or buts. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">If you break the rules, you can get demonetized, lose your Partner status, or even have your entire channel deleted. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.4">This is serious; I have several people a day who reach out to me asking for help because YouTube demonetized or deleted their channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.5">YouTube doesn't mess around with this program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.6">It may be tedious to read through all the paperwork, but you need to become familiar with the Community Guidelines, Terms of Service, copyright rules, and AdSense program policies if you want to stay in good standing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.7">You will likely find anything you need to know by going to YouTube's support page and navigating from there.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">But first, to qualify. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">It used to be that you could monetize with just one video, but YouTube quit doing this because it brought in a lot of “junk” content monetizing video‐by‐video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">They wanted to encourage videos that people would actually watch and channels they would actually subscribe to.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">You need 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 hours of Watch time in the past 12 months to be able to apply for the Partner Program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">You also have to have a linked AdSense account. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">Once you reach these requirements, go to Monetization in your menu and sign the terms, and you're all set. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.4">You will automatically be put in line to be reviewed for monetization approval. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.5">Approval used to be automatic, but now the review team can and will reject a channel if they don't think the content follows YouTube's guidelines. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.6">The usual turnaround time is a few weeks to a month, but of course, there are always reasons it might </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_60" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="60" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">take longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">This is the part where you get to practice being patient, but it's a great time to double‐check that your content and your channel follow YouTube's guidelines.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">It takes a little while because real humans do the assessments and approvals, not machines, so allow some space for them to do their jobs before you go pounding on the door for answers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">If you've crossed your t's and dotted your i's, it should simply be a matter of </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">when</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1"> not </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">if</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1"> you'll receive your YPP welcome email.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">YouTube will continue to monitor your channel after YPP approval to ensure your content continues to fall in line with policy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">No creator is entitled to the program just because they fit the numbers game. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">Remember that it's a partnership, and that you have to hold up your end of the bargain to maintain the perks of the program.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">The review team will check your channel's main theme, most viewed and newest videos, titles, thumbnails, and descriptions to verify compliance. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">But that doesn't mean you can “get away with” letting other things slide, because really they can check anything, and if they find something off‐policy, the video or even your channel can be demonetized. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">Just follow the rules.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-19" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-19" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">The Money Logistics</span></h2>
<p id="c06-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">Let me explain how the YPP money works: advertisers pay YouTube to show their ads on the site as display ads, search result ads, and as preroll, midroll, and postroll ads. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">When a viewer sees an ad on a video, the advertiser has been charged money that was taken in by YouTube and split with the creator whose video the ad played on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">How much the advertiser paid is called the CPM, cost per mille, or per thousand impressions.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">As a creator, you can go to your revenue metrics and see how much money you are making from these ads playing on your videos </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_61" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="61" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">by looking at the RPM, or revenue per mille/thousand, metric. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.2">According to YouTube, they pull in your total revenue from ads, Channel Memberships, Super Chat and Super Stickers, and YouTube Premium and multiply by 1,000, then they divide that by your total views in the same time period. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.3">This used to be an “estimated” metric, but YouTube announced the new RPM metric in July 2020 to show transparency and reassurance to creators as numbers declined from Covid‐19. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.4">I'm glad to report that the RPM metric is no longer estimated, and that you don't have to do the calculating yourself. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.5">It was always an awkward “estimated” metric, so it's awesome that YouTube fixed it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.6">Thanks, YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">It's helpful to know how much advertisers are spending (CPM) and how much you can make (RPM). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">Keep track of these numbers when you log in to YouTube, and you'll find yourself thinking about your content and strategies in new and exciting ways, focusing on the right data points that bring in money.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">As the creator, you don't get to choose which advertisers run ads with your content; in fact, it's the other way around. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.2">Advertisers choose where their ads run, and they get what they pay for. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.3">Which means the more specific they get in their targeting, the more they have to shell out. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.4">For example, paying for an ad to be shown to “females” costs a lot less per mille for an advertiser than choosing “Asian females age 35–45, zip code 90210 in southern California.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.5">They can get crazy specific here. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.6">They can specify their target as cat lovers, or within a household income range.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">Additionally, just because you've been accepted into the Partner Program doesn't mean you've earned the right to have great ads run with your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">Think about it: if your content isn't being watched by any of the demographic specifications that advertisers choose, the ads won't show up with your content because it doesn't meet the specifications. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.3">So in theory, you could be a YPP creator with no money coming in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.4">What can you do about it? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.5">Know your audience, </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_62" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="62" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">then figure out how to appeal to pop culture, too, which expands your reach to a broader demographic. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">We talk more about this awesome audience blend in </span><a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">Chapter 11</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">Also, the CPM can fluctuate; it goes up as more people advertise. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.2">Often this surge in ads happens around holidays and big events. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.3">Think of all the ads you see during the Christmas season. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.4">When there are more ads, it costs the advertiser more money to run them at that time.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-20" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-20" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</span></h2>
<p id="c06-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">What else does the Partner Program offer? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.2">In addition to ad revenue, YPP provides other ways to monetize, including channel memberships, live stream Super Chat and Super Stickers, a merchandise shelf, and a cut of the YouTube Premium subscribers' fee when they watch your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.3">Each has its own set of requirements—some have subscriber count, age, and/or regional limitations—so find out what those are when you want to implement them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.4">You will also have access to tools like the creator support team and Copyright Match.</span></p>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0005" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-12" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">Channel Memberships</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">Channel viewers can pay a subscription fee to join a channel membership, which supports the channel and gives the viewer special perks. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">Memberships can offer members‐only content like early access, behind the scenes, and exclusive videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.3">They also can include things like chat badges or custom emojis so members can stand out in comments and chats. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.4">Some viewers pay for a membership simply to support their favorite channel(s) and belong to their exclusive community.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">To apply for the channel membership program, you must be in good standing with YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">Gaming channels have to have </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_63" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="63" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">1,000 subscribers, but all other channels must have 30,000. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.2">You also need to be a YouTube Partner. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.3">The membership program is not available everywhere in the world, so check if it's available in your area. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.4">Memberships cannot offer some things, including one‐on‐one meetings, downloaded content, and marketing to children. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.5">Revenue is split 70/30 with YouTube, so you get to keep 70% of the membership fee while YouTube takes 30%.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">Some creators make a lot of money with their channel membership programs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.2">According to a 2018 </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">Variety</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1"> article (“YouTube Creators Getting New Options for Paid Memberships, Merch Sales, Video Premieres” by Todd Spangler), a musician made 50% of his YouTube revenue from channel memberships, and he planned to fund a world tour with this extra income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">A couple of travel vloggers signed up members fast with the promise of an exclusive miniseries, gaining 1,000 members in six days across dozens of countries. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">Another creator more than tripled his comedy channel revenue after implementing the program.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0006" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-13" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">Live Stream, Super Chat, and Super Stickers</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">Super Chat and Super Stickers are a fun addition to live streams and another way you can diversify your YouTube income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">They are basically a “tip” from viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">A Super Chat shows up as a pinned comment at the top of a comment feed during live streams. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.4">It is highlighted by color and duration depending on the amount tipped. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.5">This encourages the viewer to spend more money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.6">And Super Chats encourage other viewers to follow suit, often creating a domino effect. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.7">When you add Super Chat to your live stream, introduce it to your viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.8">Many of them don't know about it, so give a quick intro before jumping in to your live stream, and then let them know when you get a Super Chat to recall their attention to the option.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_64" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="64" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">YouTube gamer PrestonPlayz likes that Super Chat creates another avenue of interaction between dedicated viewers and content creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.2">He does a great job at acknowledging his live stream contributors while still being engaged in the purpose of the live stream. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.3">Always give a shout‐out or thank you to your Super Chatters.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">My friends at </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">The Ohana Adventure</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1"> channel did a live stream family game night every Monday for two years. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.2">When they implemented Super Chat, it ended up bringing in enough money so that they were able to go full time with their YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.3">Not only were their followers giving them money, but they had great ideas for future content creation that performed extremely well.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1">I've witnessed a live stream that pulled in more than $400 a minute with their Super Chat. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.2">This is such a simple integration that can make you a lot of money while being fun at the same time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.3">You can implement automatic triggers to respond when donations come in from different tiers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.4">Tier breakdowns encourage viewers to donate more if they want a bigger response triggered. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.5">For example, you can deck your set with automatic lights and a confetti cannon, and when you get a Super Chat, it triggers the light to flash, or the cannon to fire, or both, depending on the amount the viewer donated. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.6">Join </span><a href="http://ifttt.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">IFTTT.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1"> (If This, Then That), where you can apply the automatic YouTube Super Chat functions.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1">Super Stickers are animated graphics viewers can buy to show up in the chat stream. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">It's a fun way to give your viewers donating options while helping them feel like they belong to your community. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.3">Stickers are purchased separately from Super Chats.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0007" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-14" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">Merchandise</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">The YouTube merchandise shelf has brought in a ton of money for some creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.2">The shelf is featured underneath videos and offers more than just T‐shirts. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.3">YouTube partnered with Teespring so creators </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_65" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="65" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1">could design and sell a variety of branded items like bags, pillows, blankets, stuffed animals, mugs, and more.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">According to an article in </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.1">Promo Marketing</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.1"> magazine (“YouTube's Teespring Merch Integration Is Paying Off Huge for Content Creators” by Brendan Menapace), merchandise click‐throughs get 30% more traffic than other features like banner links, annotations, and description links. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.2">Mugs, stuffed animals, and T‐shirts are always in demand for viewers wanting to support or showcase a brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.3">Utilize these timeless products to further diversify your revenue sources. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.4">An animated jumping spider named Lucas has more than 400 million views and sold $800,000 in plush Lucas replicas in the first 10 days from the channel's merch shelf! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.5">The plush doll sells for $20 a pop on Teespring, but other options include T‐shirts, baby onesies, backpacks, and stickers that say, “Boop!” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.6">Lucas's catch phrase. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.7">Get yourself a merch shelf.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0008" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-15" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.1">YouTube Premium</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.1">Viewers can pay a membership fee to join YouTube Premium for an ad‐free platform experience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.2">Premium also allows downloads and background play options. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.3">YouTube gives the majority of this revenue back to creators, which means that you'll get a percentage when Premium members watch your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.4">Even if viewers watch your content as a download or background, you'll get the same Watch time credit. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.5">I wish I had an affiliate link to plug in here to encourage everyone to sign up for YouTube Premium, because it is awesome. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.6">It is worth every penny to have an ad‐free experience and the download and background play options!</span></p>
</section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-21" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0009" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-21" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.1">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</span></h2>
<p id="c06-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.1">Once you become a YouTube Partner, your ad revenue still has the potential to change and grow—not all ad revenue is the same. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.2">The </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_66" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="66" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.1">YouTube creator ratio is majority male, so there is greater competition for advertisers who want to work with female creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.2">Similarly, there is fierce competition and opportunity for reaching viewerships that focus on specific races, ages, religions, and a range of other demographics. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.3">So the exact same ad running on different content can cost different amounts based on who the creator is and who their audience is.</span></p>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0010" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-16" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.1">Google Preferred</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.1">For example, Chad Wild Clay and his wife and partner Vy Qwaint make content together and put the same types of videos on their channels. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.2">Chad's channel has millions more subscribers than Vy's, but Vy's channel makes more than double Chad's in ad revenue because advertisers pay more to be seen on a female minority channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.3">The “Chads” are a dime a dozen on YouTube, but the “Vys” are a hot commodity.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.1">When Chad and Vy create a video they know is going to perform well, they upload it to Vy's channel because they will make a lot more money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.2">Vy belongs to the exclusive Google Preferred Lineups program, which is reserved for the top 5% of all YouTube channels. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.3">Only top tier advertising clients run ads alongside Google Preferred creators, and vice versa; only top tier creators have access to premium ads and ad revenue, which could be three to five times more than the average CPMs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.4">Further, there are even tiers within the Preferred program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.5">You can almost count on two hands the creators in the uppermost earning tier—it's that exclusive. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.6">They are earning a lot more than other creators within the Preferred program.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.1">I'm sure you're thinking, “Well, where do I sign up for that?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.2">but creators can't apply to the Preferred Lineup program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.3">YouTube collects signals from five categories to produce a “P‐Score,” which ranks content that meets Preferred standards. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.4">The five categories the </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_67" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="67" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.1">P‐Score algorithm watches are (1) popularity (based on Watch time), (2) platform (content more frequently watched on large screens like TVs), (3) passion (engagement), (4) protection (content suitability), and (5) production (superior cinematic technique and camera work). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.2">This combination of signals wades through oceans of content to find the most engaging and brand‐appropriate content, no matter what category that content falls under.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0035" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.1">Brand‐appropriate, suitable content is a big deal to YouTube, and with good reason: they are working to repair a shaky history with advertisers after some big fall‐outs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.2">Advertisers left YouTube en masse when their ads ran alongside unsuitable content and some even boycotted, so YouTube is going out of their way to prove to ad companies that they have made it safe and desirable to market on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.3">Suitability is a big selling point to get advertisers to see the value in the Preferred program.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0036" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.1">The P‐Score algorithm is always at work and updating regularly, so even breakthrough talent can land on the list; there's not a Preferred program exclusion based on creator longevity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.2">Members of the Preferred program see big growth in brand lift, ad recall, and purchase intent. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.3">Brand lift means an increase in audience awareness and perception of the brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.4">They'll more easily remember you and your ad, which is termed “ad recall.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.5">It also increases your audience's intent to purchase your product or service. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.6">In short, everything elevates from a good campaign.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0037" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.81.1">Because you can't apply to become a Preferred creator, your best course of action to work toward it is to remember the five signals that feed the P‐Score: popularity, platform, passion, protection, and production. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.81.2">Use these signals as you strategize content creation and goal planning.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0038" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.1">And don't forget that advertisers spend more to choose specifics about who sees their ads. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.2">If they want to target viewers based on age, gender, ethnicity, location, interest, household income, or any further </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_68" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="68" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.83.1">characteristic or demographic, they pay for every specificity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.83.2">So even if you are not a Preferred Partner, you can still make more in ad revenue than another creator if your content pairs well with a precise niche or demographic. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.83.3">Do your homework to let this information work in your favor. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.83.4">Create content to hit those unique audiences if you want to get more of the money advertisers spend on CPMs.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0011" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-17" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.84.1">YouTube Selects</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0039" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.1">Advertisers also have the option to pay for the YouTube Selects program. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.2">YT Selects collects a lineup of content that will match an advertiser's ideal customers and run their ad on that lineup. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.3">The “emerging lineup” feature additionally pulls in new/rising content and creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.4">YouTube guarantees brand safety and suitability controls as well, meaning brands can feel confident that their ads aren't running on inappropriate or questionable content.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0040" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.86.1">YT Selects ensures that advertisers will get exposure on all devices and YouTube apps as well, so their ads will be seen where people are actually watching. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.86.2">They even offer brand lift measurements so advertisers can see how effective their campaigns are.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0012" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-18" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.87.1">Case Study: Dan Markham @ What's Inside</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0041" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.1">Let's talk more in depth about the funnest part of YouTube with some awesome success stories. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.2">What's the funnest part of YouTube? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.3">Making money, of course! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.4">Take Dan Markham from the </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.89.1">What's Inside</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.1"> channel, for example. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.2">He gets to hang out with his son and make a lot of money doing it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.3">They cut stuff open for their videos, and they have made a lot of memories together over the six years they've been active on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.4">Their multimillion subscriber channels provide ample income for the Markham family to live any lifestyle they want, but Dan remembers the early days of being a YouTube Partner and being excited about the tiny returns. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.5">His channel was making nickels and </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_69" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="69" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.1">dimes in the beginning, so he remembers very distinctly the day when he made $4 in ad revenue … and felt excited about it.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0042" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.92.1">“I thought maybe we could put some money away for college if we had a little income that was coming in while we were sleeping,” Dan said. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.92.2">“So I started reading tons of articles to research how to do YouTube.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.92.3">He started putting up videos weekly, which is all he could commit to at the time with his day job and family life. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.92.4">In four months, he reached a thousand subscribers; in three more months, he had a hundred thousand, and just four months later, he had a million subscribers.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0043" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.1">In those early days, Dan could see the potential for real growth with YPP AdSense, but he never dreamed of the domino opportunities that would be coming because of it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.2">It opened up brand deals, sponsorships, and big business ideas. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.3">This would be exciting for someone who wasn't making a ton of money in their regular job, but Dan was. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.4">He had a very comfortable, stable job that paid well, and so did his wife. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.5">She was a top VP at Honeywell, and they were each making six figures (not to mention their benefits packages). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.6">Money wasn't a problem for the Markhams. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.7">So even when the YouTube channel took off and was making more than the day job, Dan felt uneasy about quitting something stable for something that felt like it might be a phase. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.8">Looking back, he can see that he could have gone full time on YouTube sooner, but he had to be comfortable with the idea that “stable” in a traditional sense can be crippling.</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0013" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-19" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.1">Case Study: Jackie @ JackieNerdECrafter</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0044" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.95.1">Sometimes losing is the best thing that could happen to you. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.95.2">This was true for Jackie “NerdECrafter,” who entered a giveaway for a cute pin with a parrot on it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.95.3">When she didn't win, she thought she would just buy the pin because she loved it so much, but then she saw the $80 price tag and had an even better idea: she could make her own. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_70" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="70" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.96.1">Jackie had already tried her hand at a few YouTube videos but with no direction and no success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.96.2">Mostly, it had been something to pass the time after she lost her job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.96.3">Now she thought she could make a video of her cute parrot pin craft and teach other crafters how to make it.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0045" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.1">At the time, female channels often fell under the beauty and makeup umbrella. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.2">Even the crafting channels gave off a perfection vibe. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.3">Jackie thought that in order to be successful, she had to do the same. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.4">It wasn't working for her. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.5">So she stopped doing it their way, and did it hers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.6">As soon as she decided to stop trying to be perfect and just be herself, something interesting happened … her channel started to take off. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.7">Her authenticity rang true for an audience that identified with her down‐to‐earth “nerdy” side. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.97.8">She was a nerdy crafter who was into gaming and geek culture, and her sense of humor was very attractive to the right audience.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0046" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.1">In Jackie's first year as a YouTube Partner, she did a total of about $100 in YPP AdSense. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.2">Her second year brought in $500. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.3">She was spending a lot of time creating and editing videos basically for free, and always in her spare time outside of her teaching job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.4">Then something great happened in year three: her consistent, authentic content found her audience, and she made $23,000. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.5">Year four brought $34,000, and after that, it tripled. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.6">“I could see that there was a pattern,” Jackie told me in an interview. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.7">“The more I was confident on camera, the more candid and goofy and genuine I was, the better my videos did.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.98.8">She took a sabbatical from teaching so she could treat her YouTube channel more like a business, while always keeping fun at the forefront.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0047" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.99.1">Jackie's mom passed away when she was younger, and her dad didn't take care of the family, so Jackie had to step up and be the parent for her siblings. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.99.2">“It was pretty much the definition of a broken home growing up after my mom passed away because she was the glue, she was the joy of the house. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.99.3">My number one goal has always been to take care of my family. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.99.4">I don't want anything from anyone. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_71" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="71" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.100.1">But in terms of the money aspect on YouTube, I want to give my siblings the life they should have had.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.100.2">Jackie has enjoyed taking her family on trips and seeing the joy on their faces when they get to experience new places. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.100.3">“I never would have been able to do that on my teaching salary. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.100.4">Honestly, teaching money at this point is pocket change.”</span></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0014" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-20" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.101.1">Case Study: Shay Carl Butler @ Shaytards</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0048" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.102.1">Shay Carl Butler is an OG YouTuber who has been on the platform basically since the beginning. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.102.2">He was one of the first to make money from ad revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.102.3">“I became a YouTube Partner in February 2008, and got my first YPP AdSense check April 24, 2008, in the amount of $367.40 for a month's worth of videos,” said Shay on </span><a href="http://forbes.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.103.1">Forbes.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.104.1"> (“ShayCarl's Epic Journey to YouTube Stardom” by Michael Humphrey). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.104.2">“I </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.105.1">could not</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.106.1"> believe that I was actually getting money for ‘entertaining.’ </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.106.2">I knew that my family couldn't live on less than $400 bucks a month, but the wheels in my head were turning. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.106.3">I immersed myself into YouTube.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.106.4">Shay quit his granite countertop business, became a weekend DJ to make ends meet, and the rest is history.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0049" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.107.1">Forbes called Shay one of the “most successful video entrepreneurs on YouTube.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.107.2">This is the guy who had been a door‐to‐door salesman, school bus driver, MLM guy, countertop installer, radio DJ, and college dropout because he could never find a parking spot. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.107.3">Now he is the guy who has sold a company with his partners to Disney for $500 million. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.107.4">All because of YouTube. </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.108.1">Side note: Shay would be the coolest bus driver in the history of all bus drivers!</span></i></p>
</section>
<section class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0015" class="calibre"></span>
<h3 id="head-3-21" class="calibre22"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.109.1">Case Study: Ryan Kaji @ Ryan's World</span></h3>
<p id="c06-para-0050" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.110.1">Forbes 2019 list of YouTube's highest paid creators carries a hefty collective sum (and the list isn't totally accurate, because some creators, like MrBeast, don't publicize their earnings). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.110.2">The numbers </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_72" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="72" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.111.1">are mind‐blowing, but the list is an eye‐opener for those who don't comprehend the opportunity for growth here. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.111.2">Take YouTube child star Ryan Kaji, for example. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.111.3">His channel started as </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.112.1">Ryan Toys Review</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.113.1"> and has since become </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.114.1">Ryan's World</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.2">His “unboxing” videos shot him to YouTube stardom—in its first five years, Ryan's channels amassed more than 40 billion views collectively. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.3">Forbes listed Ryan's channel as #1 with $26 million in total revenue for 2019. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.4">But the ad revenue from the channel isn't their only stream of income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.5">In fact, it's not even their greatest source of income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.6">Let that fact settle into your brain for a second. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.115.7">Their ad revenue falls in the </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.116.1">tens of millions of dollars … and it's not their greatest source of income</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.117.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.117.2">YouTube opened the door to a world of opportunities for Ryan and his family, and the same can be true for every other YouTube creator or business.</span></p>
</section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-22" class="calibre2"><span id="c06-sec-0016" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-22" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.118.1">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</span></h2>
<p id="c06-para-0051" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.119.1">You might roll your eyes and think, Sure, I bet it's nice to be the #1 channel on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.119.2">Let me stop you right there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.119.3">You don't have to be on a Forbes list like these creators to make a lot of money on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.119.4">Becoming a YouTube Partner is a great start, and there is a lot of money to be made there, but you can do so much more than that. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.119.5">As you stay true to your passion and connect with your audience by using the YouTube Formula, you'll be ready for every opportunity that awaits.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0052" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.120.1">YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki reported at the end of 2019 that, “Compared to last year, the number of creators with a million or more subscribers has grown 65%, and creators earning five or six figures, annually, has increased more than 40%. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.120.2">YouTube as a platform for creators continues to thrive.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.120.3">She's not wrong. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.120.4">YouTube creators are continuing to capitalize on opportunities created on the platform.</span></p>
<p id="c06-para-0053" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_73" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="73" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.121.1">YouTube provides a unique opportunity for creators to go beyond making a supplemental or full‐time income to opening a whole world of possibilities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.121.2">It is the opportunity to build a business and a brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.121.3">No other platform has the power or the means to share the revenue that YouTube has. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.121.4">And as you have learned here, ad revenue is just the beginning.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c05.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c07.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
