<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c08.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c07_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c07_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_75" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="75" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c07" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">7</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c07-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">Jessica Hatch had been working full‐time at her family's restaurant for 12 years and on YouTube for 7 years when her mom pulled her aside and asked her why she wasn't doing YouTube full time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">This is an uncommon response from a parent or loved one. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">When a YouTuber wants to become a full‐time creator, usually their family or friends respond more critically. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">The next day, Jessica trained her brother in the restaurant, and the day after that, she went all in on her YouTube channel </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">Gone to the Snow Dogs</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">, featuring life with her Siberian huskies. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">It was a scary transition for her to leave her routine and the stability of the day job—and she was making more than double as a YouTube Partner than what she had been making on shifts at the restaurant. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">Even now, after four years as a full‐time YouTube creator experiencing multiple revenue streams, she still can't believe how much money there is to be made on YouTube, and how long it took her to realize the true opportunities from YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">As you just read about in </span><a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">Chapter 6</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">, AdSense from the YouTube Partner Program (YPP) is a great place to start making money on YouTube, but it's just the beginning. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">When Jessica first discovered revenue possibilities outside of YPP AdSense, she was floored. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_76" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="76" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">She told me, “I had heard people talking about brand deals and sponsorships, and my first thought was, ‘Whoa, I can do that. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">I can reach out to people.’ </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.3">So some of my very first brand deals were me literally picking up dog toys going, ‘Who makes this? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.4">Can I talk to these people? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.5">Sure, I can find their email,’ and I would just email people.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.6">What started out as product freebies eventually turned into big deals with companies like Sony Pictures, Disney, and others. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.7">We'll talk more about brand deals and sponsorships in a second.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">Jessica's brand deal/ad revenue ratio has continued to climb to 70/30 in favor of brand deals—sometimes it dips to 50/50, but you can see the potential for huge opportunities beyond YPP AdSense in either scenario. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">Jessica has enjoyed incredible success with a very specific niche and audience, expanding her reach and being a part of opportunities she probably wouldn't have had otherwise … all because her mom was wise enough to give her the nudge she needed to live her passion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">What a great mom. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.4">Most parents do the opposite, telling their kid to get a “real job,” but most parents don't understand the opportunity for massive success on YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">The </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">Slice n Rice</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1"> channel features the interracial relationship of Matt and Glory and is a great YouTube rags‐to‐riches story. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">Matt (“Slice”) had been working a retail job he hated and was barely scraping by, and Glory (“Rice”) had taken the big risk of quitting her job to focus on their YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">Matt felt a lot of pressure to find a way to provide, especially with their upcoming wedding. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">They had a couple of videos “pop,” or get a lot of views fast, which generated a YPP AdSense income that happened to match exactly what they had planned for their wedding. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">It felt like fate or divine intervention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.6">Matt gave his two‐months notice at his job and committed to doing YouTube full‐time with his new bride. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.7">This was a huge leap of faith and a big risk for them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.8">From there, the channel and its ad revenue continued to grow, and Matt and Glory felt so grateful that they had put in the work for their passion.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_77" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="77" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">The best part about this story (and most others) is what came after AdSense: more opportunities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">One brand deal in particular made all the difference for </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">Slice n Rice</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Warner Bros. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">approached them to push an upcoming movie that featured a mixed‐race couple. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">Matt remembers thinking that the amount of money Warner Bros. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">offered them must have been a mistake, so he didn't negotiate terms or rock any boats. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.6">They only had two to three hundred thousand subscribers at the time, and the deal felt like it didn't match their reach, that Warner Bros. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.7">must be overpaying. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.8">But they didn't know what Warner Bros. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.9">knew: how valuable a dedicated audience could be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.10">After seeing the Warner Bros. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.11">movie's success and attributing it in part to their recommendation, Matt and Glory began to understand the power of influence—particularly their own power of influence. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.12">Their authentic creator‐viewer relationship could make a lot of money for the right brands.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">Matt and Glory have made exponentially more money on YouTube in a short amount of time than most people make from a yearly salary. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">“We kept going to our bank account and just staring at it,” Matt said, “We didn't know what to do with it.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">And they are just getting started.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-23" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-23" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">Why Not You?</span></h2>
<p id="c07-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">YouTube success stories like these are not rare; I could give you thousands of examples, and we'd barely be scratching the surface. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">The point I'm trying to make is that </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">anyone can do it</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">You don't need a lot of disposable income or fancy camera equipment or 60 hours a week to be successful on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.3">You </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">do</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1"> need to learn about the platform, see how others have done it, recognize the endless opportunities, and follow the formula I'm giving you. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">Oh, and it doesn't hurt to have a little passion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">Actually, if you don't have passion, chances are you will become one of the crash‐and‐burn statistics. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">I have seen </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_78" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="78" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">many YouTube creators who burn out. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">I have seen many creators who rode the YPP AdSense wave but didn't diversify their income streams and lost everything. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">But I have also seen so many creators achieve great success and surpass every expectation they could have had with opportunities they never knew existed.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">If you think there isn't a big enough audience for you, think again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">There is a niche for everyone. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.3">A guy in my small town owns a 24/7 towing service company, and he started filming and editing videos on his phone that captured his towing rescues and escapades, and his channel has more than 26 million views in just over a year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.4">Towing cars. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.5">No really … </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">towing</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">He's now a student of mine, and I can't wait to show him the opportunities out there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">Check out </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">Matt's Off‐Road Recovery</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1"> and see that you don't even need the best equipment to be successful.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">YouTube success can be reached by anyone, anywhere, with amateur equipment. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">If you are interested in something, chances are there are a lot of other people out there interested in the same thing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">And when you find your people, you can have a valuable influence on them that can give you a lot of opportunities to grow.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-24" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-24" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">Merchandising</span></h2>
<p id="c07-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">Most people think merchandising on YouTube means you have a link for viewers to buy T‐shirts and hoodies. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">Influencers like to call it “merch,” but it can be a lot more than a T‐shirt sale here and there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">I did a merchandise strategy with MrBeast where he promised to autograph a batch of limited edition MrBeast shirts. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.4">The purpose was to raise money for a big giveaway video for his 40 millionth subscriber. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.5">He challenged the Internet to “do your worst,” and it responded in kind. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.6">He sold 68,337 shirts, and it took him 12 exhausting days to sign them all. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.7">But now he had a huge budget to make an epic 40 millionth subscriber video.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_79" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="79" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">Merchandising can be more than a “merch shelf.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">You can partner with a brand to make a product specific to your channel or your niche. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.3">Beauty influencer Jeffree Star has a huge following on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.4">In 2019, he collaborated with YouTube celebrity Shane Dawson on a docuseries and an eyeshadow palette. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.5">The pair generated a ton of hype and exposure from their combined online presence, and the response was staggering. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.6">When the palette launched, it sold one million units in 30 minutes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.7">At $52 a palette, they raked in $52 million. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.8">And they could have sold a lot more had they not sold out. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.9">The influx of traffic crashed Shopify for hours. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.10">Star had estimated sales in the millions, but I would guess that even he was blown away by the dollar amount that his influence translated to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.11">Star owns Jeffree Star Cosmetics (JSC) and brought in roughly $210 million in 2019.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">In </span><a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">Chapter 6</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">, I told you about the world's highest‐paid YouTube star, Ryan Kaji, earning $26 million in ad revenue in 2019. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.2">One tiny detail … he's eight years old. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.3">His parents have been running his channel, </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">Ryan's World</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">, since he was a preschooler. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.2">Five years later, the channel boasts more than 25 million subscribers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.3">That translates into a lot of opportunities and money way beyond that mere $26 million ad revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.4">Ryan has his own TV show with Nickelodeon called </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">Ryan's Mystery Playdate</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">But here's the kicker: merchandising. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.3">Ryan's face is on a whole line of products at Walmart and Target—things like toys, DIY projects, toothbrushes, and even underwear. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.4">Retail sales for Ryan's products reached more than $150 million in 2019.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-25" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-25" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</span></h2>
<p id="c07-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">Brands and businesses that understand the power of an influencer will spend the money to capitalize on that power. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">They know it works. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.3">People feel connected to something they care about, and they respond to authenticity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.4">So when a creator shares an authentic passion with their followers, they can easily persuade them to do something, buy something, or support a cause.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_80" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="80" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">Google created FameBit, which matches brands with creators. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.2">It's like a dating app that matches people, but its purpose is to help brands and creators to find each other. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.3">There are many agencies that do this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.4">Ricky Ray Butler is a business partner of mine. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.5">We produce a TV series called </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">The Chosen</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">, and we also cohost a podcast called Creative Disruption. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.2">Ricky Ray knows influencer marketing as well as anyone out there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.3">In fact, he started working with Facebook influencers when he was still in college, before digital media agencies were a thing (and, actually, before the term “influencer” was a thing, but we'll use the term retroactively here for clarity's sake). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.4">He quickly learned that you could get ROI with influencers connecting with brands—a new concept at that time.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">He founded his own media agency, Plaid Social Labs, and started leveraging the influence of people who had a lot of friends or followers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.2">Ricky Ray noticed that these young content creators were developing their own organic communities around raw or “unprofessional” content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.3">This was at a time when you could have counted on one hand the number of people online who had more than a million followers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.4">Influencing was brand new (this isn't even counting Instagram, which wouldn't be around for a few more years). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.5">Ricky Ray realized there was a whole world of valuable brand collaborations for someone to seize.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">Traditional marketing agencies didn't track ads then; the bottom line was their only gauge. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">But Ricky Ray's agency collected data to track their clients' consumers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.3">Their brand integrations were producing amazing results, and they had the data to back it up. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.4">Even so, when Ricky took his business model to board rooms, they scoffed at him. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.5">Here he was, a kid in his early twenties, trying to convince Big Business that young, unprofessional content creators could get people to buy stuff. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.6">The good old boys of marketing didn't know how to look at this new medium as a legitimate sales channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.7">One of Ricky Ray's first successful brand integrations was between Shay Carl Butler, </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_81" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="81" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">a YouTube creator, and Orabrush, a new oral hygiene product. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">Shay Carl pushed the product to his loyal followers, and the collab pulled in millions of views for just a few thousand dollars. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.3">That kind of brand recognition and lift was extremely valuable, but the traditional marketers wouldn't hear of it.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">So Ricky Ray kept doing his thing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.2">Plaid Social Labs combined forces with Travis Chambers, social media supervisor at Crispin Porter + Bogusky, an ad agency hired to do a campaign for Turkish Airlines. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.3">You'll get the full story in </span><a href="c09.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">Chapter 9</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">, but in short, this ad was extremely innovative and unprecedented, both creatively and distributively. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.2">Travis and Ricky Ray's agencies connected the campaign with more than 800 influencers, who would push their followers to watch and share it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.3">They used basically every top YouTuber at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.4">The ad got more than 140 million views and three million social shares.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1">Ricky Ray did another campaign with an oral hygiene product called Steripod. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">Steripod knew they needed their ad to be inside the content, so they focused on YouTube influencer integrations specifically. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">Ricky Ray paired YouTube music star Lindsey Stirling and a couple dozen other influencers with Steripod, and in three months, the product had entirely sold out in all Bed, Bath, and Beyond stores across the United States and Canada. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.4">They had seen a 15% sales increase.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">In 2015, Plaid Social Labs was acquired by Bill Gates's Branded Entertainment Network (BEN). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.2">BEN handles brand integrations and media influencers all over the world, and Ricky Ray became its new CEO. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.3">He reports to Bill Gates monthly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.4">BEN's state‐of‐the‐art technology in deep learning machines made it possible and even necessary to operate from an artificial intelligence angle. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.5">“We were forced to evolve into an AI company because the sheer amount of content and distribution these days makes it difficult to stay on top and relevant,” Ricky Ray told me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.6">In order for them to be at the cutting edge of the industry, they create a customized algorithm for every brand they </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_82" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="82" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">work with. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">They customize each algorithm depending on the client's desired outcome: views, clicks, or actual sales. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">As a result, they have more performance and conversion data than anyone out there.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">The agency worked with more than a hundred influencers to announce a new game called </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">Apex Legends</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">, which was released in early 2019. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.2">The game got 25 million players in week one. </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1">Apex Legends</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1"> had crazy good downloads and conversions, but even more impressive was view predictions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.2">BEN developed an AI that was able to predict 99.5% of the campaign's views with structured and unstructured data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.3">When they launched the next campaign during a different season, they raised their prediction to 99.8% because they had more data to go off of. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.4">Being that precise had never happened before. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.5">If the data is there, it makes the job predictable; it's no longer guesswork. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.6">The agency is one of the best in the world at using data to harness the power of influencers in generating big results and big money.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">The brand deals and integrations industry has taken a decade to develop and mature. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.2">Systems and processes for activating campaigns have to be completely different from the traditional way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.3">Nowadays, brands have to be different, and they have to be data‐driven. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.4">They have to be willing to learn what they don't know and what they've never done.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1">Branded Entertainment Network is the biggest company in the world that does influencer marketing and product placement, so they understand what's happening and what brands are doing that's working and not working. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.2">More than 80% of content on YouTube is from content creators—which means we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the potential of brand integrations.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1">Working with YouTubers can be a sales channel, but it can also be huge for brand awareness. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">Brands today can get as many views in a week as they do with a Super Bowl commercial, but it's a more effective way of marketing, because it's inside the content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.3">Other </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_83" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="83" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">ads across the Internet can be blocked by ad‐blocking tools, usually browser extensions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.2">On YouTube, ad inventory can be seen right with content that is being consumed by loyal, engaged, and trusting viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.3">There is no reason why you shouldn't be capitalizing on these audiences.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">On a personal level, Ricky Ray is passionate about his work because he thinks of it as a way to preserve and empower art. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.2">Throughout history, in times of peace and in times of turmoil, art has always been something that was of the utmost importance to preserve. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.3">In our digital age, content creators are our own version of the famous artists of the past. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.4">Ricky Ray feels like, “We are doing something important in getting their art out to the world in a way that can be consumed, appreciated, and archived. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.5">We want to empower our modern‐day and future generations of artists and innovators.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.6">And brands have an opportunity to contribute to this movement. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.7">That's important work to make a career out of—the money is just the bonus.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-26" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0005" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-26" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1">Business Ownership</span></h2>
<p id="c07-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">Beyond brand deals and sponsorships, there is an even greater opportunity to build your own business or brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.2">A lot of YouTube creators don't start a channel with this end in mind, but they should. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.3">This is where the biggest opportunity is for creators.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.1">In </span><a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.1">Chapter 6</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.1">, I introduced you to Shaun and Mindy McKnight, whose hairstyle‐blog‐turned‐YouTube‐channel changed their lives in ways they'd never dreamed of. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.2">Shaun had a comfortable job as international business director at Nature's Sunshine Products that he loved. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.3">Mindy was a stay‐at‐home mommy blogger trying to earn a little extra grocery and spending money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.4">When YouTube asked them to join the ad sharing program, the McKnights thought it would be a fun way to bring in some side money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.5">Soon, Shaun found </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_84" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="84" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.1">himself weighing his options: should he stay at his steady‐income job with insurance and a 401(k) but had basically zero opportunity to advance? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.2">Or should he quit his job to work with his wife, committing to a YouTube channel that made less money right now but had more opportunities for growth? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.3">He chose to quit his job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.4">And it only took three months before their YouTube income grew beyond what his salary had been.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.1">The McKnights had entered a YouTube channel competition called On the Rise. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.2">The monthly competition highlighted a few channels that were “on the rise,” and the winner was chosen by popular vote. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.3">The McKnights' channel </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.1">CuteGirlsHairstyles</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.1"> won, giving them a spot on YouTube's Homepage, and their channel was featured on Facebook and elsewhere. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.2">Their subscribers jumped 10% in one day. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.3">Their YPP AdSense paycheck that month had a 5,667% increase. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.4">That's not an exaggeration. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.5">Good thing Shaun decided to take that leap!</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.1">In 2013–2014, the McKnights' channel saw phenomenal growth for a channel at that time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.2">YouTube had changed to the algorithm model that followed viewers, viewers' interests, and started recommending content to them, so the McKnights got more views because of this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.3">In addition, they started seeing more ad revenue because of YouTube's switch to mobile views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.4">YouTube also went international, so the McKnights leveraged this new global audience that was just discovering their content for the first time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.5">YouTube was really figuring out their algorithm, and it was paying off for creators who already had the content the algorithm liked.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.1">The McKnights' road to YouTube success was slow and steady. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.2">Their income started with just YPP AdSense but became 50/50 between AdSense and brand deals. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.3">AdSense and brand deals were great and could generate a lot of money, but they were sending traffic and sales to someone besides themselves. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.4">As great as the money was, it didn't compare to the true opportunity here: they needed to become </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_85" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="85" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.1">their own brand deal. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.2">They started their own business and launched their own products, and if they could go back, they wouldn't have waited so long to do this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.3">At the time, they worried about pushing products on their audience, thinking it would push them away instead of pushing them to buy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.4">Looking back, they would skip the in‐between stages of brand deals and licensing deals and go straight to ownership. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.5">“The audience likes you because you're passionate about your content,” the McKnights said, “so they'll like your product because you're passionate about it, too.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.6">The authenticity goes straight through to the product on the shelf.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.1">Mindy wanted to create a line of products that would be a one‐stop shop for all different types of hair. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.2">And she wanted quality products that she would use herself. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.3">She formulated products and designed beautiful packaging for “Hairitage,” and they pitched to Walmart. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.4">Forty‐five minutes into their allotted hour, the Walmart people in the room said, in a nutshell, We've heard all of this before; what else you got? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.5">The McKnights then wowed them with their digital marketing knowledge and influencer reach. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.6">By the end of the meeting, Walmart wanted in (word on the street is they never commit like this in a first‐pitch meeting), and they gave Mindy's products prime real estate on the shelves. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.7">With a retail giant like Walmart, there are default settings and safeties in place that control exactly what product brands can and cannot do. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.8">With Mindy, however, Walmart pulled out all the stops and gave her warehouse safety stock because her products could move quicker.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.1">This was a home run for the McKnights, but it benefited Walmart, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.2">Mindy considers her Hairitage products in line with other brands you would find at stores like Target and Sephora, so she improved the quality of the products on Walmart's shelves … and the quality and quantity of the people coming into the store. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.3">A lot of Walmart shoppers go there for their grocery items, but now they would go for hair care products as well.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_86" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="86" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.1">In addition, the traditional marketing Walmart execs operated old‐school style, so they asked Mindy how to run digital marketing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.2">Mindy taught them about “swipe ups” and affiliate links. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.3">For her products specifically, Mindy wanted micro influencers to push her products to their own dedicated followers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.4">She wanted online chatter about the product, not a meaningless, nonproductive celebrity endorsement. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.5">The next step after micro influencers would be to get bigger influencers with bigger reach to tell their audiences. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.6">Mindy's meticulous care in aesthetic design resulted in products that were “Instagram worthy,” meaning people would want to take a picture and post it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.7">She knew it would be easier for influencers to have a bigger response if her products were pretty in addition to high quality.</span></p>
<p id="c07-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.1">Mindy's passion was hair products, so she created Hairitage, while her YouTube famous daughters Brooklyn and Bailey were passionate about mascara, so they created their own line of mascara called Lash Next Door. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.2">Mindy's advice to YouTube creators is to focus on your passion, not the money or the fame. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.3">If you're passionate and you push yourself to diversify and find new and exciting ways to grow, the money and the opportunities will follow.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-27" class="calibre2"><span id="c07-sec-0006" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-27" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.81.1">Limitless Opportunities</span></h2>
<p id="c07-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.1">Shaun and Mindy McKnight started on YouTube with small ad revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.2">They went on to own six YouTube channels, collaborate with awesome creators and brands, and build multiple businesses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.3">They have created products. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.4">They have negotiated huge deals. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.5">They have spoken across the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.6">And it all started with a blog on how to do hair. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.7">Examples of huge growth and big money can be found by the thousands on YouTube, in every niche and all across the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.8">Don't limit yourself. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.9">There is no reason why this couldn't be you.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c06.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c08.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
