<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c08.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c09_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c09_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_95" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="95" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c09" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">9</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c09-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">Everyone you want to reach can be found on YouTube, whether you're a mom‐and‐pop shop, brick‐and‐mortar business, or Fortune 100 company. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">If you think you can skip or skim this chapter because you're “not a business,” think again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">Every channel that brings in any money from YouTube or wants to bring in any money from YouTube has to think of itself like a business.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">One of my favorite examples of extending reach and driving revenue on YouTube comes from a quilting company in Small Town, USA. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">Jenny and Ron Doan own the Missouri Star Quilting Company, whose YouTube channel has almost 700,000 subscribers in mid‐2020. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">But in the early 1990s, before quilting was on their radar, the Doans were living in California, and they were down on their luck. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">One of their seven children had medical issues that required very expensive treatments. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.5">The medical bills crushed them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.6">They were nearly bankrupt when they decided it was time to move somewhere more affordable where they could pinch pennies and get out of debt. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.7">They literally took out a map of the United States, closed their eyes, and pointed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.8">Missouri was the winner.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_96" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="96" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">So in 1995, the Doans moved to the Midwest to a little town called Hamilton, Missouri. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">Ron got a job at a newspaper working as a mechanic, but it was a long commute with extended hours and many nights away from home. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">Jenny found odd jobs to help make ends meet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.4">Unfortunately, they lost retirement savings with the stock market crash in 2008. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.5">Ron's job security felt unsure, and the Doans were down on their luck, yet again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.6">Often in a small town, businesses struggle to stay afloat, and this was true for a lot of the shops in Hamilton at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.7">Because they were such a small community, it felt like a personal blow every time one of them had to close their doors. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.8">The Doans were a big struggling family in a small struggling town.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-30" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-30" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">Demand = Opportunity</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">Jenny was good at sewing and had been a costume seamstress in California. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">There was approximately zero demand for a costume designer in Hamilton, so someone suggested that she take a quilting class. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">Jenny's response? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">Quilting is for old people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.5">But she did take the class, and what she discovered was that quilting took an incredible amount of creativity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.6">She was hooked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.7">Jenny was a piecer, which means that she put the pieces together for the top layer of the quilt. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.8">To finish the quilt, you needed a longarm machine that would put the quilt top, fluffy insides, and quilt backing together. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.9">Quilters and their machines were scarce because the machines were very expensive. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.10">Quilts ready to be finished had to wait in a long line, and Jenny's quilts were no exception.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">One such quilt was finally completed and ready to pick up, and Jenny's son Alan asked which quilt it was. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">Jenny couldn't remember what the quilt looked like because it had been waiting in line so long. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.3">Alan and his sister Sarah were baffled by this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.4">Here was an opportunity for the taking: Mom should get her own longarm sewing machine and become a quilter! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.5">The Doans went for it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.6">They invested </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_97" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="97" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">in the expensive machine, but there wasn't room for it in their house. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">So they also bought a building. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.3">Real estate was cheap in their poor town, and the Doans paid less for the building than they had paid for the quilting machine.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">Jenny practiced until she got confident in her skill, and they opened shop. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">In 2008, the Missouri Star Quilt Company had “launched,” but they didn't know who to launch to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">In those early days, business was meager in their town of 1,500 people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.4">The UPS guy who delivered stuff to their building felt bad for them because he was sure their business wouldn't make it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.5">You had to be crazy to open a business like this in such a place! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.6">One transaction a day felt like a success to the Doans. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.7">They made a Facebook page and got two likes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.8">Alan had an idea to do a “Quilter's Daily Deal” to sell random extras kicking around the warehouse, but quilters just weren't online yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.9">It was a hard start, because they didn't know where to find their audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.10">The Doans had found an opportunity, but they had invested in an expensive machine in a tiny town with no foot traffic.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">Alan enlisted the marketing expertise of his friend David Mifsud to help him run things online, while Jenny and her daughters Sarah and Natalie ran the shop. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">One thing the Doans did have going for them was their email list. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">It was important to them that their newsletter bring value to the people reading it, so they gave a lot of helpful quilting information for free. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">People looked forward to the email and wanted to share it with their other quilting friends, who also would sign up. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.5">It was at this point that they made a decision that would eventually transform their lives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.6">Alan suggested to his mom that she should film tutorials and put them on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.7">Jenny said, “Sure, but what's a tutorial?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.8">He explained it to her, and she said, “No one is ever going to go on YouTube to look for quilting stuff.”</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">Jenny was so nervous and awkward in her first video shoot. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">Not only that, but she actually had an accident and broke her leg that day! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">She easily could have quit after such a rough start, but she didn't. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">She </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_98" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="98" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">pushed through the awkwardness of being on camera and continued to film videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">Traditionally, quilting was an “elite” thing in the world of sewing, but Jenny made it easy and accessible in her tutorials. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">She showed her mistakes and how to fix them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">And she genuinely loved what she was doing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">The Doans put links to these YouTube tutorials in their newsletters, and the readers loved them.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">Quilters would get together and have parties to watch Jenny's YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">Viewers started asking about the products and fabrics Jenny was using in her videos, so she told them where to buy things, and the products would fly off the quilting shelves.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">Their website's “Quilter's Daily Deal” offered a 40–100% discount on the item of the day and became a big hit as their reach expanded, but what really took the company to the next level in revenue was precut fabric. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">Finding coordinating fabrics by the bolt and knowing how much to purchase, what shapes and sizes to cut, and doing the actual cutting is a huge job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">It's the reason why many people avoid quilting altogether. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.4">Jenny's goal was to simplify quilting, so they made their own line of precut fabrics, already coordinated, cut, and ready to assemble. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.5">They did 14,400 online orders in the first six months. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.6">Business continued to climb, and so did their YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.7">They now do more than 6,000 orders every day, and they employ half the town of Hamilton.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">Missouri Star Quilt Company is the biggest sewing channel on YouTube, turning Jenny into the quilting world's biggest “sewlebrity,” as they call her. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">YouTube helped Jenny reach a worldwide quilting audience she wouldn't have been able to find in her rural town in the middle of the country. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">Her fans even send mail from all over the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">One letter in particular struck a strong chord with Jenny. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">In the letter, a woman from Iran wrote, “You have filled my war‐torn life with color,” and Jenny sobbed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.6">She had thought she was just quilting; she didn't realize it could be impacting lives in such an important way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.7">What she offered might be the only place of peace or happiness in someone's life.</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_99" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="99" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-31" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-31" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">Think Bigger</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">In addition to being the biggest quilting YouTube channel, Missouri Star Quilt Company is also the world's largest provider of precut quilting fabric. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">They even have their own quilting patterns and their own magazine called BLOCK. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">The company's online reach breathed new life into Hamilton's struggling community. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.4">Busloads of quilters visit the town, which has become a tourist attraction. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.5">The Doans own and operate 14 quilt shops with different themes, three restaurants, and a hotel in Hamilton, which is now known as “Quilting Disneyland” or “Quilt Town, USA.”</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">Jenny and her family were simply trying to pay the bills when they started quilting, but YouTube gave them a platform to educate and sell to a whole world of quilters. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">With an estimated $40 million in annual revenue, the Doans are still amazed at how far YouTube took their humble business beyond anything they could have possibly imagined.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Do you understand what I'm trying to tell you? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">That wasn't just a cutesy story about a nice family who can pay their bills thanks to YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">Their annual revenue is in the </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">tens of millions with a quilt shop in the middle of nowhere because of YouTube</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">I do not care what kind of channel you have or what your excuses are, there is a potential to grow and make money on YouTube that anyone can capitalize on! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">Exactly zero YouTube channels started with millions of subscribers, brand deals, and product launches. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.4">Don't sell yourself short by thinking those things aren't for you because you're a small channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.5">Think bigger. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.6">The opportunity to grow in reach and revenue is there for the taking, and if you're not treating it like a business, start doing it now.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-32" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-32" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">Break into Big Brands</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">In </span><a href="c02.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">Chapter 2</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">, I talked about how ad revenue sharing changed everything for the YouTube ecosystem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">I introduced Orabrush as an </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_100" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="100" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">original case study of leveraging the power of YouTube to generate huge success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">Go back and read about how Jeffrey Harmon, a poor college student at the time, took a product from near death to international distribution and millions in evergreen sales. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">Orabrush's inventor, “Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.4">Bob” Wagstaff, had tried many ways to sell his tongue‐cleaning brush, but nothing had worked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.5">When a company is spending two dollars to make one, they get to a point where they have two options: quit, or try something totally new. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.6">Wagstaff chose option two and gave this marketing student the reins. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.7">YouTube was totally new, and Jeffrey wanted to try using it to help Dr. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.8">Bob save his invention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.9">Advertisers weren't on YouTube yet; it was a rudimentary platform to buy ads to send traffic to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.10">This is why it was such a huge opportunity: there was nobody to compete with yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.11">Jeffrey enlisted the help of fellow amateur creators he knew to help him make a video for Orabrush for a few hundred dollars, and he put it online.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">Jeffrey paid a penny per ad view—a crazy cheap amount by today's standards—and Orabrush started making big money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">The ad platform had increased sales percentages by the </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">thousands</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">In fact, Jeffrey kept buying more ads and making so much money in those early days of ad sharing that YouTube had to scramble to figure out how to cap advertisers' revenue percentages. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">Because of one guy! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.4">He had been buying up all the inventory in ad views, and it was like printing his own money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.5">YouTube caught on, and they wanted to control the money flow. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.6">(I like to call this moment in YouTube history the Jeffrey Harmon Effect. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.7">Oh, the power!)</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">In the ad's first month, Orabrush made $30,000. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">The second month saw $70,000 in revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">In 2009, Jeffrey helped Orabrush create a web series called “Diary of a Dirty Tongue” complete with a man, Dave Ackerman, dressed in costume as a giant talking tongue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.4">The idea behind the web series was to create brand followers, which </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_101" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="101" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">was unheard of at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">Jeffrey had Dave and the tongue costume join him at VidCon, attending as the convention's first sponsor. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">There were 600 attendees that year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.4">(As a reference, VidCon US 2019 brought in more than 75,000 attendees. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.5">And it was only one of several annual VidCon events around the world.) Jeffrey's takeaway from the conference was the realization that everyone at the event also wanted to build a following.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">They continued to create episodes for the web series, and they had more than 200,000 followers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">Orabrush was the first brand to create a web series; nobody had done that before. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.3">It was definitely ahead of its time—Jeffrey even admitted it was maybe too far ahead of its time as far as achieving reach and revenue potential goes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.4">The world didn't know how to do that yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.5">Back then, even respectable cable networks only had 100,000 subscribers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.6">The biggest YouTube creators at the time had the same amount of followers, which meant that these individuals were basically their own cable networks. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.7">The difference was that they didn't have to answer to any executives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.8">This was an eye‐opening realization. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.9">Jeffrey was beginning to understand the potential power of leveraging YouTube for massive growth.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">Orabrush had created true fans and had generated millions of video views because people shared the ad organically online. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">Their affinity with their customers made it possible to get their products into Walmart, Costco, and international markets.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">The second year Jeffrey went to VidCon, a guy from Google approached him and gave him an actual hug because of Orabrush. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">He told Jeffrey that they had been unable to break into big brands, but because of what Orabrush did with Walmart, he had been able to land a deal with Coca‐Cola … and probably saved his job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.3">Orabrush had changed the trajectory of how business was done. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.4">“When you figured out how to make money,” the guy said to Jeffrey, “it opened the door for everyone.”</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_102" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="102" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-33" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0005" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-33" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">Optimize with Split Testing</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">Next up for Jeffrey and his brothers Neal and Daniel was a campaign with a company called PooPourri. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">The Harmon brothers had begun working together as an ad agency without making it official. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.3">The ad campaign for PooPourri was a quick one, going from inception to launch in only three weeks. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.4">In just 21 days, they did the script writing, casting, shooting, editing, and ad release. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.5">That's impressive. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.6">The ad truly went viral. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.7">When people talk about a viral video, they are talking about ads like the one for PooPourri. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.8">Because of what they had learned doing Orabrush, the Harmon brothers had learned how to do split testing with different intros, outros, and lengths. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.9">In testing, William Goodman, a </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">Huffington Post</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1"> reporter, got his hands on the video, and he embedded it into the article he wrote about the ad called “Poopourri Spray Promises to Take the Stink Out of Public Pooping.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">The article made the video go viral long before testing was complete, so Jeffrey and the client decided to go ahead with the campaign launch right away.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">As successful as the ad was, Jeffrey said it could have gone even further and generated even more revenue had they been able to finish the split test. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">The video that had gone viral was titled, “How to make it so your poop doesn't stink,” and testing showed that the title, “Girls don't poop,” was performing better. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.3">Here's an expert tip from Jeffrey: use the words your followers use to describe your brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.4">“Girls don't poop” had been said several times in the comments of the video, so they took the phrase and turned it into the best performing version of the ad. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.5">“You can find your true brand message in the comments,” Jeffrey said, “If you aren't using those words, you're probably not on target.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.6">Take it from Jeffrey—he's run a successful ad or two. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.7">The Harmon brothers made a very large amount of money on the PooPourri campaign. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.8">(Fun fact: PooPourri asked where to wire the money, and the Harmon brothers didn't even have a business account at a bank yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.9">They hurried to file as a business on their state's website so they could run down to the bank and set up an account.)</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_103" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="103" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-34" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0006" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-34" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">Take Smart Risks</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">Another client the Harmon brothers helped generate a ton of views and revenue for is Bill and Judy Edwards and their son Bobby, owners of Squatty Potty. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">Squatty Potty is a footstool made to use while going “number two.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.3">It is ergonomically shaped to fit perfectly under a toilet for easy storage. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.4">Squatty Potty had been on the TV show </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">Shark Tank</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">, a reality show that gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to pair with an investor and get their product off the ground. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.2">A </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">Shark Tank</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1"> investor signed on with Squatty Potty as a 10% owner in the company.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">The Edwardses had gotten their toilet stool into stores, but people didn't know how it worked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">They thought it was a gag. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.3">Soon, the revenue Squatty Potty made with the investor plateaued, so Bobby Edwards needed to penetrate the market more than was currently being done. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.4">He needed to get the product in front of more people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.5">He asked the Harmon brothers to help, but he hesitated when he heard their pitch for an ad with a pooping unicorn. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.6">Bobby's investor said no. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.7">The investor said it should be a free campaign, which meant the Harmon brothers would be doing it pro bono. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.8">It was Jeffrey's turn to say no. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.9">He knew how valuable their skills were, and he had the résumé to show for it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.10">They agreed to disagree, and Jeffrey went on his merry way.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">Fast‐forward three months. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">Bobby went to an event where there happened to be unicorns in attendance. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.3">It must have been a positive experience, because Bobby came back and told Jeffrey and me (I was executive producer on the project) that he wanted to do the ad. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.4">He gave the executive go‐ahead to the Harmon brothers without involving the investor who had said no. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.5">To Bobby's credit, this was a huge risk for him—the campaign was very expensive … and he had a 10% investor to answer to eventually.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">I met with Jeffrey, Daniel Harmon, and Dave Vance, a brilliant writer, at a retreat to hash out the creative ad the campaign. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_104" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="104" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">We all brought our own version of a script, but Dave Vance's was the clear winner. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.2">It featured a unicorn and a prince, and it was magical. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.3">We paired Dave's clever script with the sales components from Jeffrey's script and my script. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.4">Then we let Daniel work his artistry on the creative side. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.5">Together, we had created something special. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.6">The retreat gave us the uninterrupted space to plan a killer campaign.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">We went home and started production right away. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.2">There were kinks to work out (no pun intended … go watch the ad), but we kept the campaign plan intact and moving forward. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.3">During filming ads in the past, we had run into issues with clients being on set because it stopped the flow of creative work being done. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.4">A word of advice when you're in the same situation: let the creatives create; don't let the brand dictate. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.5">So we planned to film the ad while Bobby was out of town at a convention with Squatty Potty to avoid this issue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.6">Bobby and his parents worried about being gone when we filmed, but we told them, “You hired us, so trust us.”</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1">A few weeks before launch, Bobby had been hounding me to send him the ad, and I didn't know what the big deal was. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">Why was he making it sound so urgent? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">Finally, he told me that he still hadn't talked to his partner about his decision to move forward with the campaign. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.4">He had invested a lot of money into it at this point, so if the investor rejected it again, he would be out a lot of money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.5">We sent him the ad so he could show it to the investor … and they approved this time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.6">The aggressive potty humor in the ad had the possibility of being criticized, but it was so good that it was worth the risk. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.7">We decided to launch on Facebook, which was a little nerve‐wracking for two YouTube guys. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.8">Facebook ads were still pretty new at the time, and we thought it would perform best there before we launched it on YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_105" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="105" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">We weren't wrong. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.2">The ad went viral. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.3">The campaign on Facebook and YouTube got more than 20 million views in its first day, and we hadn't put a single penny into ad spend yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.4">We made a lot of money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.5">Again, the big platform had to scramble to figure out how to regulate advertiser revenue because of Jeffrey Harmon and his team. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.6">Facebook now has regulations to cap ad revenue, but there is still so much to be made. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.7">This ad campaign was only half a million dollars, and we got our ROI in just a few days. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.8">Squatty Potty went from having a couple million in revenue to $28 million from one campaign.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">An adorable pooping unicorn and an eloquent prince delighted millions of people and drove tens of millions in sales. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">Comments, tagging, and sharing skyrocketed sales, and the product flew off the shelves. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">I had warned Bobby to increase inventory production to satisfy the demand we knew would be coming. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.4">He did increase some, but conservatively. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.5">He had already invested so much into this campaign. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.6">Nobody could have predicted how far the ad reached and how many people wanted to buy—it was crazy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.7">Bobby ramped up to a 24/7 production right away, but even with manufacturing based in the United States, he ran out of Squatty Potty stools before the Christmas rush.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">Every brand launching an ad campaign should be concerned with two things primarily: the brand's message and split testing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.2">Stay true to messaging at all costs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.3">And split test to see what works best for optimal results and revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.4">When split testing for Squatty Potty, we found that the ad with the $29.95 cost actually performed better than the $24.95 ad, so we bumped up the price to $29.95. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.5">It converted better and made more money for everyone. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.6">Win‐win. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.7">You also need to think about distribution ahead of time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.8">With its humor, we knew this ad would be shared organically and that we could amplify it with a paid strategy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.9">We knew that even if an ad platform cost us more, we could get the revenue we wanted.</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_106" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="106" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-35" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0007" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-35" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">Think Evergreen</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">If you are a business, you need to stop thinking quarterly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.2">Make content that is evergreen, meaning it will continue to produce results year after year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.3">No platform likes old ads, so shoot at the three‐ to six‐week zone for initial results, but any piece that has the fundamentals of good ad content down will continue to work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.4">There always will be people who haven't watched it who will see it like it's brand new. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.5">The original Squatty Potty ad aired in 2015, and it is still running today. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.6">And every time they rerun the Squatty Potty episode of </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1">Shark Tank</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1">, we see a spike in sales.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-36" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0008" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-36" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">Be Your Own Influencer</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1">YouTube has been built around creators who become their own brand influencer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.2">This is not the Hollywood way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.3">Hollywood has two problems: the studio sitting between the audience and the influencer, and the sheer amount of content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.4">There is just so much content to consume. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.5">Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime, HBO Max, Vudu, Disney Plus, Apple TV, Peacock, and so many more are all vying for consumers' attention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.6">How can your brand cut through all that noise? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.7">Build a following that has an affinity with you as an influencer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.8">With a hundred hours of content being uploaded to YouTube every second, that's the only way to get yourself seen. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.9">You must have a direct connection with your audience.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1">If Hollywood wants to survive, they'll have to adopt this model, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">Actually, it's already happening. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.3">Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, for example, commands a bigger paycheck, not because of his acting ability, but because of his massive social media following. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.4">He has connected himself directly with his fans, and they love him for it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.5">Where they used to be three separate things, creators, influencers, and brands are all the same thing now. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.6">Jeffrey said it best: “Weak brands </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_107" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="107" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">piggyback off of influencers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.2">Good brands </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">are</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1"> the influencers.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.2">This is how you extend your reach. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.3">Connect with your audience directly, and watch the money follow.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-37" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0009" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-37" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">Embrace the Digital World</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0035" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.1">Companies that hold fast to traditional marketing only are stuck in the 1990s. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.2">For so many of these companies, egos and awards continue to get in the way of actual money making and brand reach. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.3">They'll run “studies” or fluffy ad campaigns to pander to executives, shareholders, and investors. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.4">And in return, they'll get a pat on the back and a little more job security. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.5">These companies don't look at real numbers to measure campaign revenue and brand lift, and they don't think about direct‐to‐consumer e‐commerce that could be raking in millions more.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0036" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.1">Companies that embrace the evolution of marketing are way ahead of the curve. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.2">They have the right framework in place to drive conversions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.3">The right framework means they keep traditional elements like problem/solution, entertainment, and brand awareness, but also they integrate newer strategies that work in today's digital age. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.4">Strategies like direct response, attribution, and influencer activation.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0037" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.1">There is so much available to help you track marketing these days. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.2">Analytics, pixels, and brand lift are huge metrics to measure. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.3">You can do an at‐home brand lift study by going to Google and looking at your search increase and direct traffic increase. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.4">You can look at Google Trends as well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.5">If you want to spend the money, Google can do a brand lift study with you.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0038" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.1">Sometimes these numbers get buried because companies and creators just don't know how to look at them right. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.2">A company might look at their in‐platform tracking pixels and think their ROI </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_108" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="108" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.1">is only two‐to‐one, so they bag the campaign, labeling it a failure. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.2">This is where omnichannel attribution must be considered. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.3">Omnichannel means a customer's experience with a brand should be integrated and seamless among online, offline, social, and mobile interactions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.4">And that businesses need to be able to track all of those streams of revenue.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0039" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.1">In 2013, ad agency Crispin Porter + Bogusky (CP+B) had hired 25‐year‐old Travis Chambers as a social media supervisor. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.2">That same year, the big CP+B execs had a meeting with Turkish Airlines, whose next campaign goal was to have the most viral ad of all time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.3">At the time, CP+B was at the height of their success as “Agency of the Decade.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.4">CP+B's Chief Digital Officer Ivan Perez‐Armendariz was in the room, and he privately texted Travis to “Get in this meeting.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.5">There were a lot of executives and creative directors/teams in attendance, but Perez‐Armendariz knew that they needed Travis's specific skill set on this project. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.6">Travis told them how they could run a successful campaign, and he landed the job of distribution and content strategy for the Turkish Airlines campaign.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0040" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.1">Perez‐Armendariz gave Travis the green light to do what he needed to do for the campaign to be what it needed to be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.2">Involving too many execs and too much red tape would bog down the creative freedom needed for the project to be as successful as it could be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.3">So he let Travis run with it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.4">Travis hired Ricky Ray Butler's brand integration company Plaid Social Labs to connect influencers with the campaign. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.5">They got professional basketball player Kobe Bryant and professional soccer player Lionel Messi to compete for the attention of an adoring kid fan in the ad titled, “Kobe vs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.6">Messi: The Selfie Shootout.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.7">CP+B had been tasked to get more than a 100 million views on the campaign in order to beat the previous year's commercial. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.8">Travis, along with Plaid Social Labs's help, had 800‐plus influencers tell their viewers to check out the video by Turkish Airlines. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_109" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="109" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.1">Their communities embraced it and shared it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.2">It got more than 140 million views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.3">The total campaign cost about $3.5 million, and—here comes the crazy part—they didn't even track it.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0041" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.1">Nobody at CP+B looked at the numbers, except the president of the Europe office, who sent an email detailing his shock. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.2">He compared the YouTube campaign's $3.5 million ad spend to their traditional TV buy, which cost $25 million and got half the impressions the YouTube campaign got. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.3">He wondered why they tracked data and brand lift on the TV buy but not on the more successful YouTube buy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.4">And he suggested that the YouTube strategy should be the agency's game plan moving forward. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.5">Nobody listened. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.6">They were busy getting Cannes Lions and Grand Prix awards and patting each other on the back. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.7">The ad was dubbed the “Most Viral Ad of the Decade,” and nobody even knew exactly how much money it had made. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.8">Travis's guess is that it was easily more than $50 million across all streams of revenue.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-38" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0010" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-38" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.1">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0042" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.1">Whether you are a small business or a corporate giant, you must be doing omnichannel attribution. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.2">Omnichannel attribution tracks and measures a customer's overall interactions with a brand across online, offline, social, and mobile experiences. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.3">It tracks streams of marketing revenue, so brands know what flops and what works so they can do it better (and make more money) on subsequent ad campaigns.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0043" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.1">For example, Travis went on to create his own ad agency, Chamber.Media (and eventually land on the 2018 Forbes 30 Under 30 list), and he ran a campaign with Sephora and PMD Beauty. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.2">Sephora mandated that PMD increase retail sales by 15% in order to remain in their stores. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.78.3">Without omnichannel attribution, Sephora would have thought that the campaign had only gotten a </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_110" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="110" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.1">one‐and‐a‐half‐to‐one return, but Chamber.Media went and pulled in all retail plus other revenue channels in addition to YouTube, Facebook, and Google ads, and they found that it was actually a blended four‐to‐one return. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.79.2">They raised retail sales by 30% and saved PMD from losing Sephora.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0044" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.1">Another Chamber.Media client, MRCOOL, thought their ROI was only two‐to‐one from the in‐platform tracking pixels, which is pretty bad for a $1,500 average order value product. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.80.2">But when they took in </span><a href="http://homedepot.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.81.1">homedepot.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.82.1">, </span><a href="http://lowes.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.83.1">lowes.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.84.1">, their parent company who also sells on their website, and Amazon and Google shopping, it showed a 20‐to‐1 return. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.84.2">The few million dollar ad spend had driven $50 million in revenue. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.84.3">“It's one of the most successful campaigns we've ever had,” Travis said. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.84.4">“And someone could have turned that off if they didn't understand the omnichannel attribution model.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0045" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.1">So many companies are missing the big picture here, turning off campaigns because of poor tracking, or doing a short‐term campaign instead of thinking evergreen. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.2">You have to get tactical. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.3">You have to look at all the data and plan long term. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.4">Television campaigns are very difficult to track. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.5">Digital campaigns can be tracked, measured, and are evergreen. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.85.6">If you aren't using omnichannel marketing and tracking, start doing it now.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-39" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0011" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-39" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.86.1">Use Paid Acquisition</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0046" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.87.1">Travis and I have worked on several projects together, and we have seen the power of YouTube to help businesses expand in both reach and revenue in ways they'd never dreamed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.87.2">Organic growth may be slowing down from the gold rush days as the Internet saturates over time, but there are always ways to be tactical and creative.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0047" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.1">People like the Harmon brothers and Travis Chambers got in when the getting was good in free reach. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.88.2">It used to be that you could get a lot of free reach with audience growth, a social following, </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_111" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="111" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.89.1">press, affiliate marketing, SEO rankings, and influencer deals. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.89.2">These efforts are difficult to grow sustainably for a long period of time now, because Google, Facebook, Pinterest, TikTok, Amazon, and others own the real estate in reach. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.89.3">That initial “gold rush” is heavily mined, so the way to get seen now is best achieved with paid acquisition strategy, or ad buying. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.89.4">And as long as your content is creative enough, you should be able to sustain.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0048" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.1">Ad buying is probably going to get extremely easy in the next few years, because Internet algorithms and artificial intelligence will be able to do the job of ad buyers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.2">Where you'll have a leg up on the competition, then, will be with awesome, creative content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.3">Robots will never be able to think outside the box like a human can. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.4">So, if you really want that reach, make sure you have a great creative plan in place, and use a paid acquisition strategy that will last forever. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.5">A brand that's doing this well is Purple mattresses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.90.6">They use paid acquisition, but they have incredibly creative content to back it up.</span></p>
<p id="c09-para-0049" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.1">Other brands that explain a problem and solution clearly, even without words sometimes, perform really well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.2">They hook visually, which works wonders in a world that's endlessly scrolling. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.3">It takes a lot to catch consumers' attention these days, especially in a sea of endless content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.4">So if you can grab their attention in the amount of time it takes to scroll, you must get to the problem‐solution point as quickly as possible. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.5">Instagram ads are really good at this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.91.6">Pay attention next time you're on there.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-40" class="calibre2"><span id="c09-sec-0012" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-40" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.92.1">Learn Strategies and Use Them</span></h2>
<p id="c09-para-0050" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.1">It doesn't matter what kind of channel or business you have, anyone you want to reach can be found on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.2">Learn how to leverage YouTube's power to connect you with your audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.3">Use strategies from people who have done it successfully. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.93.4">It can feel too difficult to </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_112" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="112" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.1">cut through the noise of so much online content these days, but it can be done with the right creative and paid strategies. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.2">Learn them, and use them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.3">Don't make it guesswork. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.4">Utilize tracking systems, ideally with omnichannel attribution. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.94.5">And implement the data‐driven approach to YouTube success coming up next in </span><a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.95.1">Part III</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.96.1">.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c08.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
