<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c10_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c10_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_115" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="115" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c10" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">10</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<blockquote class="extract">
<p id="c10-para-0002" class="calibre14"><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">It can't be that hard to start a YouTube channel that gets lots of views and subscribers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">That teenager makes videos of himself goofing off with his friends, and he is a millionaire. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">I can do that. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">I'll just hit record, click upload, and watch the money pour in!</span></i></p> </blockquote>
<p id="c10-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">Unfortunately, I've seen way too many YouTube creators who started their channels thinking it would be easy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">It doesn't take very many videos with little to no views before a creator gets frustrated. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">YouTube is harder than they thought it would be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">We've all been there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.5">You took a lot of time to plan, film, and edit, and you think you made a pretty darn good video … so why doesn't anybody want to watch it? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.6">Turns out the YouTube swimming pool is actually an ocean, and you're just a tiny fish in the sea. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.7">I'm always impressed when people keep grinding on YouTube without getting the results they want. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.8">It's super frustrating, but they refuse to give up.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">I love YouTube, and I love helping YouTube creators and businesses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">I'm lucky to work with all kinds of channels all over the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">No matter how big or small the channel is or what type of content they create, every YouTuber wants me to help them with the same </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_116" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="116" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">thing: they want to grow. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">Some want to grow in views, some want to grow in subscribers, and some want to grow in money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">Actually, different types of growth usually go hand in hand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">When you get more views, you get more subscribers, and income growth generally follows.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0005" class="calibre14"><a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">Part I</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1"> of this book was to help you understand YouTube, the history, the ecosystem, and the platform. </span><a href="p02.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">Part II</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1"> was to help you discover the possibilities and opportunities for creators and businesses on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">I hope you were educated and inspired. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">I hope it made you reconsider your Why. </span><a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">Part III</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1"> is where I will help you learn how to get smart and create content tactically. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">I want the wonderful opportunities for success to be yours, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">I want your hard work and passion to pay off. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">YouTube has given creators some amazing tools and data to help us figure out how to reach more people with our content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">You probably won't see YouTube's success secrets in a rain of digital code unveiled like Neo did in </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">The Matrix</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">, but you'll learn the step‐by‐step Formula to help you achieve the YouTube success you've been dreaming of.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">If you want your videos to get discovered in a sea of millions, keep this thought at the forefront: make data‐driven decisions but always optimize for humans. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">You have to become a YouTube analytics pro, whether you like it or not. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">But this doesn't mean you turn into a robot or create content for a robot. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.4">Your YouTube success hinges on you maintaining the human element. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.5">You have to create for humans—the robot was built to find and follow the humans that would be the most likely to love your videos.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-41" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-41" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">YouTube Sixth Sense</span></h2>
<p id="c10-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">Dan Markham is a very successful YouTube creator. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">One day I got a call from him asking if he could use my studio to film a video because he had recently moved to the area where I live, and his studio wasn't set up yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">Dan and his son Lincoln came over and filmed </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_117" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="117" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">a video for a couple of hours. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">On their channel </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">What's Inside</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">, Dan and Lincoln cut stuff open to see what's inside (a brilliant idea for a channel … why didn't I think of that?). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">That day's video featured the cutting open of a real Rolex watch and a fake one. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">You can find the video by searching “What's inside REAL vs FAKE Rolex.”</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">They got done filming, and I thought it was a pretty good recording session. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">But Dan turned to me and said, “Well, this video isn't going to do very well.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.3">I was surprised. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.4">I asked him why he thought that, and Dan listed several things that would have helped with audience retention in this video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.5">Audience retention is an important metric that tells if the viewer actually enjoys the video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.6">I asked if he thought he could fix it in editing or voice‐over, but he said no. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.7">There were some elements that were needed to make it happen in real time and editing wouldn't work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.8">And he couldn't refilm the video because he couldn't cut open and destroy another expensive watch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.9">Dan did what he could and uploaded the video to his channel, and guess what? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.10">His intuition was spot on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.11">The video underperformed exactly like he said it would.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">How did Dan know that his audience wouldn't respond to this video? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">Does Dan have some freakish sixth sense?</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">I have found that the most successful creators have great intuition about what will work and what won't. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">They know their audience so well that they can kind of predict the outcome in their head. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">They know which video will become a “banger” and which won't.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">This kind of YouTube Sixth Sense can be learned, and it comes from analyzing successful content and knowing your audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">To analyze content, you have to put it under a microscope and figure out every moving part. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">Data analysis will force you to move past biases and assumptions that can cloud judgment and lead to poor decision making. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.4">Becoming a data expert is what helps you discover your own YouTube Sixth Sense so you can intuitively know how your content connects with your audience.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_118" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="118" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">The perfect example of a creator who has this YouTube Sixth Sense is Jimmy Donaldson, “MrBeast.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">I've been working with Jimmy for a few years, and I've never seen a creator like him before. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.3">Never. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.4">He has been disrupting YouTube and the Internet with his “super power” for successful content creation. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.5">Was he just born with it? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.6">No! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.7">He watches YouTube differently than most. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.8">He imagines how people will feel and respond to every aspect of the video and makes decisions from there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.9">He really thinks about what will get them to click and when they might lose interest in the video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.10">But more importantly, he validates his intuitions with data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.11">He has always been obsessed with data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.12">Jimmy and I first met in person because he wanted to have a face‐to‐face conversation about data without interruption. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.13">He literally dropped everything and got on a plane just so we could talk about YouTube data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.14">His data obsession is why he gets tens of millions of views every day and millions of subscribers every month.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">You have a unique perspective and personality that can connect with a specific audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">This audience just needs help finding your content in a really big ocean, and the way to do that is by making data‐driven decisions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.3">Instead of getting frustrated when nobody watches your video, get tactical. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.4">Take control by learning the trade in numbers and graphs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.5">The YouTube AI is always actively looking for a potential audience for your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.6">YouTube has given us the tools so we don't have to rely solely on our gut feel or intuition.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-42" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-42" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</span></h2>
<p id="c10-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">Every creator and business should be able to answer the question, “What is your finish line?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">or, “What is your goal?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.3">You might be surprised to learn that many creators can't answer this question outright. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.4">If you don't have a goal in mind, you're probably running </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_119" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="119" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">in circles on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.2">I want to help you figure out your finish line so we can make a game plan to get there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.3">This is the first step in the YouTube Formula.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">An easy metaphor here is running a marathon. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">Marathon runners have a literal finish line to cross, but their goals can range from running the whole thing without walking, to beating their best time, to qualifying for the Boston marathon or the Olympic trials. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">Each runner in these scenarios has to run the exact same course for the exact same distance, but their training plans will look wildly different from one another because their goals are different. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.4">Whatever your finish line is, you have to define it in order to make a plan, know the steps it will take, and how to track yourself to get there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.5">Most creators want to get millions of subscribers and dream of the day they can post a picture of themselves holding their own gold play button. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.6">Your goal could be as simple as replacing your nine‐to‐five job with your YouTube income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.7">Maybe you want to influence change in other people's lives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.8">Or maybe you're like MrBeast and want to be the biggest YouTuber of all time.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">Everyone is motivated by different things. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">Personally, I'm not motivated by rewards like more views, subscribers, gold play buttons, or money, but I am obsessively motivated by goals. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">I feel so much accomplishment and satisfaction by achieving a goal. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.4">Maybe your motivation is money, and that is totally fine. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.5">We just need to know that right out of the gate so we know what plan to create.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">Let me tell you about a YouTube creator from the channel </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">Invisible People</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">Mark Horvath interviews homeless people on the streets. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">His channel has more than half a million subscribers and more than 120 million views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.4">I asked Mark why he was on YouTube and what his finish line looks like, and he told me he was on a mission to help educate the world about homelessness. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.5">He explained the misconceptions about homelessness that make it really hard to </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_120" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="120" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">address the root of the problem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">Mark then told me a heartbreaking story about a kid named E.J. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.3">E.J.'s parents died in a car crash when he was six, so he was placed in foster care. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.4">Foster care was a nightmare for E.J., who was abused by his guardians, so he ran away. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.5">He lived on the streets for 11 years.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">Mark said to me, “Derral, people just don't get it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.2">Politicians don't get it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.3">And I'm on a mission to let people know there is more to homelessness than meets the eye. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.4">I want to change the narrative.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.5">I could see that this meant so much to him, so I asked him why. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.6">Tears welled up his eyes, and he told me that he used to be homeless. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.7">He was unemployed for an extended period of time, which caused him to lose his house to foreclosure, and he had nowhere to go. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.8">He felt like he became invisible when he was homeless. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.9">This is why Mark was so personally passionate about the reason behind his YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.10">He said, “This isn't just talk. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.11">Each year, our groundbreaking educational content reaches more than a billion people across the globe. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.12">Our real and unfiltered stories of homelessness shatter stereotypes, demand attention, and deliver a call to action that is being answered by governments, major brands, nonprofit organizations, and everyday citizens just like you.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.13">Mark's finish line is perfect for him.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">When I work with clients and students, I help them create a plan to follow the YouTube Formula and take the steps to get to their own finish line. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">The Formula will help you create any plan to fit any goal for any channel, because it is formulated from the data YouTube gives us. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.3">YouTube is awesome at giving creators data that will help them make smart decisions based on real feedback; we don't have to guess what to do next. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.4">Know your goal, create a plan, execute it, analyze how it was received, and adjust your approach moving forward. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.5">In short this is the YouTube Formula, but there are a lot of moving parts and data we need to understand to really take advantage of it.</span></p>
</section> <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_121" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="121" class="calibre16"></span>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-43" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-43" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</span></h2>
<p id="c10-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">As I explained in the book's introduction, my career started in 1999 when I started my own online marketing company. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">I did website ranking on Internet directories and search engines. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.3">As I was learning how to do Internet marketing in the 1990s, I had learned a lot about search engines and SEO. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.4">Basically, I was good at keyword stuffing and looking for exploits. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.5">The Internet was dumb back then, so this worked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.6">Traditionally, search engines had been done by submitting to a directory, but Google changed the way everything was discovered by spidering the results and then ranking in search results. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.7">Page one of Google search results is prime real estate in money land, and obviously, everybody wants it; while page two of search results … well, if you've never heard the adage about the best place to hide a dead body … then google it (spoiler alert: the answer is page 2 of Google).</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">I spent years trying to find exploits, using hacks to get to the top of page one for my clients. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.2">Every time I thought I was on top, Google kept doing updates to plug the holes and figure out Internet traffic, and they would give every update a cutesy animal name: the Panda update, the Penguin update, and so on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.3">I hated these updates because they made my job and life so difficult. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.4">Then I would be back on that cycle, looking for any hack or strategy to get those websites to rank. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.5">All I could think about was the algorithm. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.6">This was a vicious cycle, and something had to give. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.7">What gave? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.8">I gave. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.9">I finally realized that I had to change the way I did things so that I could operate in line with Google's goals. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.10">Once I did that, I succeeded every time.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">This is my plea to you not to hate the YouTube algorithm. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.2">Take a step back and realize that the AI's job is to follow the viewers and predict what they will watch, and </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">this is a good thing</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.2">YouTube is not out to get you! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.3">Don't try to game the system like I did for too long in those early Internet days. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.4">Think of the viewers as people, real humans </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_122" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="122" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">living and breathing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.2">YouTube is built to help humans find the videos they want to watch, videos they enjoy and are satisfied with.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">This is why you have to optimize for humans, not search engines. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.2">To be the best creator you can be, you have to be making content for people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.3">So many creators put too much importance on keywords, thinking they are the keys to the YouTube kingdom. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.4">Let me tell you the truth: YouTube looks far beyond your keywords anyway. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.5">When you upload new content, YouTube has systems in place that determine exactly what is in your video.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">The YouTube AI doesn't care about your title and thumbnail, but if a person cares and clicks, then YouTube pays attention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.2">When the viewer connects with the content or the creator, they watch more and they watch longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.3">This makes YouTube happy, and they push your content to similar viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.4">Most people push content, content, content, but they need to be more worried about connection with the viewer.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">The first time someone watches your content they are clicking because of your title and/or thumbnail, yes, but if they watch the video and start to connect with you, then that's your golden ticket. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">When you convert a viewer to a fan, your title and thumbnail lose a lot of importance because that fan will watch your video anyway at this point—they like you and trust you, and they want to watch based on those facts.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">In order to optimize for humans, I recommend that you define your video with a title that has fewer than 60 characters. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">This is hard to do, and it will take more thought than you realize. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.3">The human eye is attracted to shorter titles. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.4">Humans, as opposed to robots, are attracted to certain pictures and have an amazing capability to browse through them fast. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.5">A human brain can process thumbnail images in a jaw‐dropping 13 milliseconds. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.6">And once the brain lands on an intriguing image, it takes an average of 1.8 seconds to process the attached title.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_123" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="123" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">Additionally, humans respond to storytelling. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.2">Your video should have a story arc. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.3">It should begin with you delivering on the promise of your title and thumbnail. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.4">After that, you need to reengage the viewer and pull them into your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.5">This is a great time to share the personal touches: your backstory, your beliefs, and other engaging elements. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.6">Doing things like sharing your beliefs puts your viewers in a position to decide whether they agree with you. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.7">At the end of the video, you again deliver on the promise of the title and thumbnail, proving that they got what they came for, and you tease a follow‐up video to keep them watching longer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.8">Finally, you interact with your viewers and respond to comments.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">Once you try to optimize for humans instead of search engines then you will do exactly what the algorithm wants, and YouTube will be able to find your audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.2">The AI looks at patterns for people, so when you create content for people instead of for robots, everybody wins.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-44" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0005" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-44" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</span></h2>
<p id="c10-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1">I first learned a very important principle when I started my company around the turn of the century. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">My clients were often the mom‐and‐pop type local businesses, and they were difficult to convince that spending money for online marketing was worth it at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">I mean, we were still on dial‐up Internet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.4">Do you know the dial‐up sound? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.5">I can still hear it in my head to this day. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.6">It took forever to connect to the Internet! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.7">Anyway, one of my first clients came to me for help with their marketing because they had tried TV, radio, newspapers, and other resources, and nothing seemed to be helping. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.8">I convinced them to let me do some online marketing for them.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">It took a couple of months, but customers started coming in their door “magically.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.2">These people were coming in because of </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_124" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="124" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">my online marketing efforts, but my client didn't recognize the correlation and didn't ask the customers where they had heard about them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">They told me they no longer needed my services because business was booming. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">I was devastated to lose their business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.4">They didn't take the time to figure out why the traffic was coming in the door, but I knew. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.5">I also knew their traffic would slow down when we quit our online marketing, which it did after a couple of months. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.6">They came back to me and we reengaged, and they ended up growing by leaps and bounds.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">The important principle this client had missed was knowing how to replicate what had worked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.2">While I knew the Why behind their results, they didn't, and they naively assumed they didn't need to know. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.3">You have to know why your traffic came and where they came from. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.4">A lot of businesses have made bold assumptions about things they thought would work when the complete opposite was true. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.5">You have to know which message works for which traffic sources.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">Some of you are brand new and some of you are seasoned YouTube creators, but all of you need to know that traffic source is the key to understanding your viewer and their behavior. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.2">Here's why: if you go to the data that YouTube gives you, you'll see a list of where your viewers are accessing your content from, including YouTube Search, Suggested videos, Browse features (Homepage and Subscription), Playlists, Channel pages, YouTube Advertising, Videos, Cards, Annotations, Notifications, Endscreens, and other features. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.3">You'll see how many views are coming from where, and you'll notice that the other metrics are completely different depending on which traffic source you are looking at.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">If you remember in earlier chapters when we discussed the AI, you'll remember that there are multiple algorithms with an “s.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.2">This is where the “s” comes into play. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.3">Each traffic source has an independent algorithm whose aim is to increase the likelihood of people who will </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_125" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="125" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1">click and watch videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.2">Knowing where your traffic is coming from can change the way you do everything.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1">Kristina Smallhorn is a realtor from Louisiana who was using YouTube to create content from a Search‐traffic mindset. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.2">She spent so much time on keyword research and creating content for Search traffic. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.3">She did see some positive results with clicks and views, and she got leads and closed some deals from her content, but she wanted to improve and to grow her income even more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.4">She had bought a few online courses and read some books on SEO, and they just weren't getting her the results she wanted to see. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.5">At this point, Kristina reached out to me for help in a consultation.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0035" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">I looked at Kristina's channel data and we talked about which videos had the best numbers that were still bringing in views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.2">There were two candidates: “How to Get Rid of Dog Pee Smell In Carpet,” with 223,000 views, and “Mobile Homes Pros and Cons: Manufactured Homes,” which had 107,000 views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.3">After digging into the data, I could see her older videos in particular had performed well, so I recommended that she make more content to reach the viewers that had responded to those two videos.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0036" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1">She pushed back on my first recommendation. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.2">She didn't want to become the “Dog Pee Lady” on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.3">We both chuckled about that. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.4">However, she was willing to give mobile homes another try, so she went and did exactly what I told her to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.5">She didn't have a lot of faith that it would work, so when it did, she was thrilled. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.6">Now, her channel growth stats are off the charts and climbing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.7">She was able get six million views and more than 33,000 subscribers all because she was able to make content for a specific viewer that YouTube could find and recommend her content to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.8">The best part was that she was also able to get a flood of new leads for her real estate business and more referral income, and she was able to find other income streams that would replace the need to be a listing agent.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0037" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_126" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="126" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1">If Kristina hadn’t known to look at her real‐time traffic and traffic sources to know what content to make and how and for whom, she would still be spending tedious hours on keyword SEO. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">Know your traffic sources so you can know your viewer.</span></p>
<p id="c10-para-0038" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">I understand if you are frustrated. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.2">I understand if you have thought about quitting YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.3">But I also understand that if you stick with it, knowing your goal and learning the Formula, you can achieve everything you want, and so much more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.4">Get ready to dive into </span><a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">Part III</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1"> with this mind‐set, and complete the Action Exercise tasks at the end of each chapter.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-45" class="calibre2"><span id="c10-sec-0006" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-45" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">Action Exercise</span></h2>
<ul class="none" id="c10-list-0001">
<li id="c10-li-0001" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.1">Task 1:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.1"> Write out your finish line (your goal) and put it somewhere you will see it daily. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.2">Don't lose sight of why you're creating, especially in the hard times.</span></li>
<li id="c10-li-0002" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.1">Task 2:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.1"> If you have content on YouTube, go to your real‐time analytics and look through your top‐performing videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.2">Write down the ones that are more than 6 months old that are still bringing in the most traffic in the past 48 hours.</span></li>
<li id="c10-li-0003" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.1">Task 3:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.1"> Plan, create, and upload a video about the same topic as one of those on the list you made.</span></li>
</ul>
<p id="c10-para-0040" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.1">There is a free companion course that goes with this book. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.2">You can get free access to all the videos, extra training, resources, and workbooks at </span><a href="http://www.ytformulabook.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.1">www.ytformulabook.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.1">.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="p03.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
