<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>12 Recon and Research</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="c13.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c12_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c12_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_143" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="143" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c12" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">12</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Recon and Research</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c12-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c12-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">Every business knows there is no business without the customers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">You have to get the people in the door. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">This is called acquisition. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">A lot of money and time is spent on marketing to acquire customers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.5">You need to spend some time figuring out how to get the people in the door, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.6">You might not be seeing your viewers as customers or consumers, but you should. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.7">They are consumers you need to acquire to be successful. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.8">I'll show you how to find your people, and more importantly, how to retain your people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.9">You have to know how to keep them coming back for more, or you will lose them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.10">Our goal is to keep the loss or “churn” rate as low as possible and the growth rate continuously climbing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.11">Every good business does this well, and so should you.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">This is going to be one of the funnest chapters of the book because we get to talk about exactly how to go and find your viewer tactically. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">The funnest part is that it works.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">In this book's introduction, I said that a pooping unicorn made me write this book. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">This wasn't tongue‐in‐cheek; I literally meant it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">Here is the story behind it: I was visiting my friend Jeffrey Harmon, whom I have worked with on many projects over the years. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.4">We complement each other really well professionally. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.5">He told me about a potential new project he might be working on </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_144" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="144" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">that would have a pooping unicorn in its ad. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">He had me at unicorn, but he really had me at poop. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">The ad was for a company called Squatty Potty, and they had a challenge to overcome. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">Their demographic was the boomer generation, and they had plateaued. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.5">They knew they needed to reach a younger, health‐conscious avatar, and they reached out to the Harmon brothers' marketing agency to help.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">I told Jeffrey I really wanted to be a part of the project (Who wouldn't? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">An ice‐cream pooping unicorn? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">Sign me up!), so we joined forces and started on the creative. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">We needed to take the “ickiness” out of going number two, and we had to convince the Squatty Potty owners and their </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">Shark Tank</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1"> investor that this would work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">Originally, the plan was to use an artificial Clydesdale‐sized unicorn to poop because it was big enough to fit an ice‐cream machine inside, but Daniel Harmon, Jeffrey's brother and business partner, had the idea to use CG effects and a small unicorn instead.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">We needed to know where to find the unicorn lovers of the world and figure out who they were on an individual level so we would know how to connect with them in our message and delivery. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">Every marketing campaign's success hinges on knowing who the buyer is, but I wanted to know more than who would buy a Squatty Potty; I wanted to know what kind of person cared about unicorns enough to respond strongly to an advertisement that featured one. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">So I went on Reddit, which is always a great place to go and find niche groups, and I was looking for people who liked My Little Pony, because we thought this would be a community that would respond to the unicorn.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">There is a subreddit for every topic, and wouldn't you know, I found a community of My Little Pony fans … who were grown men. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">They even called themselves “Bronies,” and they had their own culture of My Little Pony memes, terminology, and costumes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">I'll never forget the costumes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">I lost three days of my life to the Bronies, because I just couldn't believe such a bizarre subculture existed, and I </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_145" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="145" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">kept getting deeper and deeper into the rabbit hole. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">It fascinated me so much. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">I went back to Jeffrey and Daniel Harmon and Dave Vance, the head writer for the project, and told them about what I had found. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">We kept the Bronies in mind as we brainstormed and created the ad, because we wanted to make something that would resonate with their subculture—we wanted them to like it enough that they would talk about it and share it with people. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">Dave came up with the magical world and the prince, and wrote a brilliant, entertaining script.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">The Brony discovery moment was monumental for me in my work because it made me realize just how important it was to go find your avatar. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">The lightbulb had gone off; it was a very aha moment for me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">It's important to note that the Bronies were not our target buyers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">They were the focus group who would respond to the video ad naturally. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">They would create a feedback loop for the campaign: they would find the ad and watch it all the way through, comment on it, and share it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.6">They would create the buzz so those viewers that would buy the product would see the ad. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.7">They would kick‐start the campaign and get it to grow.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">For every 10,000 views, we knew how many shares we would get and how many people would tag their friends, engage, or purchase. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">I handled the organic pushes to different viewer personas that would view, consume, share, and buy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">Jeffrey looked at it from the long‐term approach of acquisition and retention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.4">He measured the buyer persona by one criteria: who swiped the credit card. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.5">Between us, we had all the bases covered. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.6">Like I said, we work great together.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">When the ad was ready to launch, we knew we had something big. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">It was a longer form video, almost four full minutes, which was much longer than traditional advertising, but it was original and extremely entertaining. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">Jeffrey and I had a launch strategy session, and we had the idea to make a gif of the unicorn pooping ice cream with the caption, “The world is going to change on [this date].” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.4">What </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_146" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="146" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">did we do with it? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Leaked it to the Bronies, of course! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">I privately shared the animated gif with a member of the Brony community. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.4">How does the saying go … You can lead a Brony to water but you can't make it drink? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.5">Well, they drank. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.6">They were wild about the gif, and when the video was released later that week, it hit the front page of Reddit.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">We got more than 20 million views on the video in less than 24 hours, and it kept gaining steam every hour. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">Jeffrey and I were dumbfounded at the response. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">The best part was that we knew that for every dollar spent we would make a certain amount. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.4">We put fuel on the fire by running ads against it on top of its organic distribution. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.5">It has sustained sales over time, which is great because we were able to analyze and adjust along the way, and it has kept working.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">In the ad's first year, it brought in $28 million in attributable sales, and to this day, years later, it's converting every time the ad runs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">There are still people who haven't seen the ad, even though it's several years old, and we know they will buy because we know the persona, so we can target exactly who we need to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">There are new buyers coming on the market every day, and when the right one matches, we've acquired another customer.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">I haven't seen an ad go viral like this one before or since. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">It was even dubbed, “The greatest viral ad in Internet history,” by </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Boing Boing</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">This is how I found the true secret of understanding content creation based on finding the right person for the content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.3">We found the right viewers who would share the ad, and we found the right viewers who would buy the product. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.4">This is the secret magic of the ice‐cream pooping unicorn.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-52" class="calibre2"><span id="c12-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-52" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">Reconnaissance</span></h2>
<p id="c12-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">Reconnaissance means you are in discovery mode. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">You need to discover your own Bronies, so to speak. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">Your job here is to nail down </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_147" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="147" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">what type of content you want to make. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">You want to know if anyone is doing something similar on YouTube already, and if so, what each channel stands for and what their audience cares about. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">You want to know who the big creators are in the niche—who has movement and momentum. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.4">You want to figure out who the target audience is and how they are responding.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">So let's get down to business on the </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">how</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">: Go to YouTube and make a list of 20 different channels in the niche that you are interested in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">Then go to the first channel's videos and sort by most popular. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">Watch the most popular videos that were uploaded within the past year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.4">Go to the next channel and do the same thing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.5">You need to write all of this down. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.6">Pay attention to what videos are recommended next when you're watching each video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.7">You'll be able to see what is working on YouTube right now. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.8">Some of these channels might have a lot of subscribers, but they haven't seen recent activity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.9">Make sure the channels you are listing have active viewers who have recently consumed the content and/or commented. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.10">Some of these big channels haven't posted a video in a really long time, so don't use these ones for your recon purposes. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.11">When you sort by most popular, make sure they have something recent in their top results. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.12">Look at how engaged the viewers are on each video and channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.13">Look at the viewer‐to‐subscriber ratio to see how big or small the market size is for the niche. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.14">Remember Devin Stone from </span><a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">Chapter 11</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1"> whose </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">Legal Eagle</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1"> channel teaches people about the law? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">While you're doing recon, keep in mind how Devin reached out to a broader audience than the law student crowd.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">What you are doing is gathering enough data on similar content to the type you want to be creating. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">Grouping similar channels together helps you see patterns. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">When you understand similar channels and how their viewers interact with and respond to their content, you are figuring out who your viewer might be.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_148" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="148" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">I don't want you to do deep research on these channels just yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">Your purpose is to grab as much information as you need to discover what's out there in your niche and who those viewers would be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.3">You'll analyze all of this information in the research phase later.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">After you make your list on YouTube, go search the niche off of YouTube as well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">The people who would be interested in your type of content are interested in things elsewhere on the Internet, and you need to understand their behaviors and interests. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">Reddit is a great place to find communities. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.4">You will be surprised about the things your viewers are interested in that you didn't even know existed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.5">Once you have all of this information, you're gearing up to make data‐driven decisions.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">Great creators are always in reconnaissance mode, even after reaching huge success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">You don't do recon once and call it good. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.3">There is always more to discover about your audience, and your analytics will continuously show you patterns. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.4">You will discover hidden gems when you diligently watch your data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.5">Look at the data with the question, “Why?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.6">always in your mind. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.7">Why did your content succeed or not succeed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.8">Why did your viewers interact with your content the way they did. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.9">But be careful not to get stuck here: a big mistake I've seen creators make is spending too much time in recon mode. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.10">It's so easy to fall into the rabbit hole when you start digging (read: my journey into the annals of the Brony world). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.11">Get the information you need, and move on to the research phase.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-53" class="calibre2"><span id="c12-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-53" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">Research</span></h2>
<p id="c12-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">Okay, now you are ready to dig in and do some analysis on the stuff you gathered in recon. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">Go back to your list of YouTube channels and click on one, then, again, sort the videos by most popular. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.3">Just forget about the older videos on the channel; you want to look at what has been working recently. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.4">Choose 6 to 10 videos per channel that have </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_149" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="149" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">the most views and make notes on titles, thumbnails, video views, likes and dislikes, and video duration. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.2">Notice if the creator uses a hook to pull viewers into the content, what the pacing feels like, and how they edited. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.3">Ask what similarities you see among different videos and across different channels in your list. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.4">Make note of reengagement throughout the video, calls to action, video descriptions, and comments.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">You are looking for patterns here: patterns in content creation and patterns in the audience's behavior. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.2">This practice is all about the response and interaction of the viewer with the content, and to see what is working right now in your niche. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.3">While this section of the chapter isn't long, the process of doing the research takes time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.4">It can get tedious, but do not skip ahead. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.5">You have to do the work if you want to see the patterns. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.6">I promise it will be worth it; just stick with me.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-54" class="calibre2"><span id="c12-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-54" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</span></h2>
<p id="c12-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">Recon and research can provide the perfect storm when it comes to finding your community and getting your content out to the world.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">Another project Jeffrey Harmon and I are currently working on together is the polar opposite of a pooping unicorn; it's Jesus. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">I am more passionate about this project than any other I've ever done, and I've done </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">a lot</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1"> of projects. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.2">We wanted to create a TV series about the life of Jesus Christ that appealed to the evangelical community and had the professionalism of an HBO‐quality series. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.3">Jeffrey introduced me to a creator named Dallas Jenkins who later became my partner and the writer and director of the series about Jesus Christ called </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">The Chosen</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.2">Ricky Ray Butler, Matthew Faraci, and Earl Seals also joined as owners. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.3">Jeffrey wasn't going to be an owner, but he was going to distribute the product with his VidAngel company.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_150" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="150" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">On a big project like this, we do a multiday lockdown marketing session, but beforehand, we have several brainstorming sessions to get a good handle on who the right viewer persona would be: who would be passionate about it, and who would back the project. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.2">I thought it would be easy to do because it would be people just like us. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.3">Dallas knew we could speak the message but was more skeptical that we could get people to invest. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.4">We had to meet the needs of our project through crowdfunding, and he said he would be impressed if we could make $800.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1">Matthew had worked on several big evangelical projects and knew the space well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">Dallas also had a lot of experience in the space. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.3">But no one had ever made HBO‐quality Christian productions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.4">Texas is one of the largest groups in online video consumerism, so we targeted Texas and other southern Christian areas. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.5">In other data that we had gathered in recon and research, we realized that Gen X and millennial women are the biggest spenders online, so our target buyer persona was females aged 25 to 45. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.6">We targeted the people who were the community, school, and church volunteers, the I‐love‐Jesus type.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">For our lockdown marketing session, we got ourselves an Airbnb, ordered in food, and got down to business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.2">We laser‐focused on who our audience was. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.3">We defined the path of how we would get from where we were to our end goal. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.4">We had to figure out how we would raise the money and how we would find the army of people who would resonate with our content and promote it to the world.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">We had seed money with the intent of crowdfunding to reach the needs of this project. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.2">At the time, </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">Mystery Science Theater 3,000</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1"> and </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">Veronica Mars</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1"> were the highest grossing crowdfunded projects with devout, cult followings. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.2">So we made a goal to surpass these projects and become the #1 crowdfunded project in the history of movies and television. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.3">The goal was $10 million. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.4">We knew we wanted to resonate our message and vision with a specific persona (25‐ to 45‐year‐old female, married or unmarried, church‐goer, volunteer). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.5">Then we </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_151" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="151" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.1">asked where do these people congregate online? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.2">The answer was not on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.3">We defined that Facebook and Instagram is where we would find them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.55.4">We developed our messaging and content strategies around this precise audience and targeted them primarily on Facebook, because it was the easiest platform to share the content and the message of our campaign with like‐minded people.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.1">We launched the pilot episode, which told the nativity story about the birth of Jesus, and we pushed it to the right people at the right time: just before Christmas. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.56.2">The first episode hit the sweet spot in the Venn diagram (from </span><a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.57.1">Chapter 11</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.58.1">) because it was timely, topical, and could reach our ideal viewer in addition to a broader, pop culture audience.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.1">We more than doubled the all‐time crowdfunding record with a show about Jesus. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.2">You might even say it was like manna raining down from heaven, if you're the Bible type. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.3">Some of our biggest contributors said they donated money because someone had pushed it to them—that someone was usually a person who fit our target persona profile (our buyer strategy worked!). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.59.4">In just a few short weeks, we were able to get tens of thousands of Facebook followers.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.1">I knew that in order for us to massively grow organically, we needed to nurture our audience on other platforms. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.2">It took me two years to convince Dallas to fully embrace becoming the “influencer” face of our project, and that's when everything changed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.3">People identified with him and his passion, personality, and authenticity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.60.4">When we went live on </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.61.1">The Chosen</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.1"> YouTube channel, Dallas started speaking to our avatar, YouTube found the viewers who matched, and suggested our content to them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.2">We got 146,886 subscribers in 14 days. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.3">Yes, 14 days, and yes, that exact number. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.62.4">Every single one mattered to us.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.63.1">We can't get more opposite in demographics and content than in the two examples in this chapter, which I actually love because it demonstrates that the method works, no matter what your content </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_152" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="152" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.1">is or who your audience is. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.2">Speak to your target audience, and then broaden to get your content to the masses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.64.3">Upcoming chapters will show you how to really leverage that.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.1">The essence here is that the more you understand and relate to your audience and create content for them, the more YouTube will connect the dots and feed them their preferred flavor of ice cream, so to speak. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.2">Maybe it's the unicorn‐poop‐flavored kind, or maybe it's the Jesus kind. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.3">Our recon and research made it possible for us to form a community of people who loved and distributed our message and content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.4">This is what can happen when you do enough recon and research; this is the payoff. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.65.5">This is why you do everything in this book.</span></p>
<p id="c12-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.1">One word of caution here: this isn't a one‐and‐done step. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.2">You don't do recon and research at the outset and cross if off your to‐do list. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.3">You have to keep going back to look at your data and reevaluate. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.66.4">The more data that comes in, the more patterns you will see and the better you will be able to shift your strategy as needed to make better decisions about your content.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-55" class="calibre2"><span id="c12-sec-0005" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-55" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.67.1">Action Exercise</span></h2>
<p class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.68.1">Perform the reconnaissance steps to better find your audience and see what they're consuming on YouTube:</span></p>
<ul class="none" id="c12-list-0001">
<li id="c12-li-0001" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.69.1">Task 1:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.70.1"> Research at least 10 successful creators in your niche.</span></li>
<li id="c12-li-0002" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.71.1">Task 2:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.1"> Take note of what they have in common. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.72.2">Watch their most successful videos and take note of video creation and editing patterns.</span></li>
<li id="c12-li-0003" class="calibre10"><b class="calibre15"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.73.1">Task 3:</span></b><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.1"> See if and how they engage with their communities, both in the video comments and on the Community tab. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.74.2">Read the comments on their most popular videos.</span></li>
</ul>
<p id="c12-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.75.1">Get the companion workbook and find more resources at </span><a href="http://www.ytformulabook.com" class="calibre5"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.76.1">www.ytformulabook.com</span></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.77.1">.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c11.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="c13.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
