<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="c20.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="b01.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="c21_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="c21_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_295" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="295" class="calibre13"></span><a id="c21" class="calibre5"></a><span class="calibre"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">21</span></span><br class="calibre19"/><span class="chaptertitle"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</span></span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="c21-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="c21-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">Let me leave you with a story of an amazing YouTube family. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">Jase and Rachel Bennett's YouTube channel is </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">The Ohana Adventure</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">, or </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">TOA</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">, as they call it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">It's a family vlog channel that provides a comfortable lifestyle for the Bennett family, but it wasn't always that way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">In 2013, Jase had gotten his longboard brand, jaseboards, into Costco and other big retail spaces when an underwater skateboarding video went viral on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">Jase saw an opportunity on YouTube for his wife, Rachel, who had been a regular blogger for many years. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.5">Rachel liked the idea of starting a family vlog, so </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">TOA</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1"> was born.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">Rachel began vlogging without much direction. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">In the beginning, she didn't even watch other YouTube channels to see what other vlogging families were doing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">But she did do something powerful: she found her Why. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.4">She wanted to be one of those families who could inspire others to nurture healthy family relationships by having fun together. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.5">It took nine months to get any views, and when the channel hit a hundred subscribers, it felt amazing (as good as a million subscribers would feel down the road).</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">One video in particular boosted </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">TOA</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">'s YouTube success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">Rachel did a “How to Shave Your Legs” video with her preteen daughter. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_296" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="296" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">This triggered a nice run with monetization that made Jase decide to quit his job and go full time on YouTube with his family. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">The Bennetts filmed everything in the regular life of a family, including the “ah‐oh” moments, like a kid bonking his head or getting another injury. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">Then along came the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) and a super strict response from YouTube: all “questionable” kids' content got demonetized, including </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">The Ohana Adventure</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1"> because of their “ah‐oh” content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">This was a hard blow to the Bennett family, whose livelihood depended on their YouTube income.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">I had a conversation with Jase and Rachel at this time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">We talked about the importance of creating data relationships among their videos and getting their content in the Suggested feed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">We talked about collaborating with other family vloggers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.4">They made a new plan based on these ideas, and they committed to it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.5">Rachel was determined to get her channel back on track, so she gave herself a deadline to reestablish monetization, and she got to work making better content.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">Jase and Rachel surrounded themselves with like‐minded people and did some great collaborations. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">They even shared audiences, topics, and upload schedules with similar family vloggers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">They made sure their audience had good crossover data with the channels they chose to collaborate with so they would get the right viewers watching their content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.4">Every Monday night for two years they did a live stream and played family games. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.5">They knew consistency was important, so they never missed a week. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.6">This was a new strategy that gave their audience a chance to connect deeper. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.7">Viewers had great comments that gave them ideas for more videos, and they listened.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">Audience engagement was huge. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">When they listened to suggestions and gave shout‐outs, it pulled their ideal viewers into their content even more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">Jase started doing a silly rap at the end of every live stream where he would plug viewers' usernames into the rap. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.4">This gave him the idea to do a video with his daughter that parodied </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_297" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="297" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Taylor Swift's song, “Look What You Made Me Do.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">The parody became their most viewed video with more than 100 million views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">Because of this video's huge success, they made more videos with data relationships to connect to that content bucket and to their overall content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.4">They made videos of the parody's bloopers, behind the scenes, and choreography. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.5">This strategy to build more content around what was working gave them $20,000 in AdSense in the first week.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">Every YouTube channel makes mistakes, and </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">TOA</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1"> was no exception. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">Jase and Rachel got caught up in the comparison trap, thinking if they started to copy what other successful creators were doing, it would work for them, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">It didn't. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">Jase got stuck in an algorithm mindset, creating content for the machine instead of for their viewers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.5">They had stopped speaking to their own audience, and their channel went from getting millions of views a day to getting 500,000 at best. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.6">Their channel was dying, losing momentum and interest of the viewers.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">So they regrouped. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">They went back to their ideal viewer, which was actually an older kid demographic, and slowly started to get their metrics back up. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">Now they are careful to gear new content to the right audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.4">The kids have separate channels from the family channel, and each appeals to different audiences based on their age and topics. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.5">Because they have grown up on YouTube, the kids know their audience well and do a good job creating content for their ideal viewer.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">Jase and Rachel chose YouTube as their family's career and main source of income, but it's important to them that they keep it fun for the kids. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">They live and create by the mantra “Inspire, not require.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.3">They've tried, failed, analyzed, and adjusted to get to where they are now. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.4">Their collective channels have millions of subscribers—people who are inspired to have good old‐fashioned fun and healthy familial relationships. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.5">The best part is they went back to their original Why from when they started on YouTube.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_298" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="298" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">When I asked Rachel what advice she would give to herself if she could go back to when she started her YouTube channel, she said she would tell herself to figure out what content performed best so she could do more like it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">She would be more consistent. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.3">She would have good metadata and create viewing data relationships among her content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.4">But maybe most important of all, she would tell herself not to let the blunders get you down. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.5">Just move on, and make better content.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">YouTube's own history follows the formula to try, fail, analyze, and adjust with data‐driven decisions. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">Jawed Karim, Chad Hurley, and Steven Chen started YouTube with the intention of making it a dating website. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.3">It didn't work, so they looked at what was working, and changed their strategy to match the data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.4">You have to follow their example, and </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">TOA</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">'s, if you really want to succeed on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.2">You now have the tools you need to be smart in your preparation, creation, and follow‐up, meaning you know what it takes to try, fail, analyze, and adjust based on data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.3">Utilizing the data to your advantage takes the guesswork out of your YouTube channel and not only helps you succeed, it feels incredibly empowering.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">You've done some great work in this book. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">You learned how the AI has changed over time and how each traffic source now has its own algorithm to cater to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">This was a very important thing to learn, because it helped you take control of your own presence in the ecosystem rather than blaming YouTube for your failures. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.4">Now you know that there are opportunities aplenty—a whole world of views to capture and money to make. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.5">There are countless ways to interact and succeed through community, collaborations, brand deals, and more.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">As you move forward as a creator, align your priorities and practices with what YouTube wants. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">Put more importance on getting viewers to click or tap on your video, because if they don't click, they won't watch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">And when you get them to watch one, then get them to watch another one. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.4">Think of the viewer as a person, not a number, so </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_299" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="299" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">you can really get to know who they are to anticipate what they might want to watch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.2">It's all about the viewer! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.3">And remember that YouTube success is not a lottery. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.4">Don't think that Jase and Rachel Bennett were some of the “lucky ones” realize that anyone can do this—including you—with the right mindset and tools.</span></p>
<p id="c21-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1">I hope I have opened your eyes to the power of YouTube to change lives and businesses—it offers a place for every one of us to reach the whole world, no matter where we live or what our circumstances are. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">If you skin your YouTube knees, just get up, brush off, analyze what happened and why, then continue making great content you're passionate about, whether it's vlogging or quilting or building your business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.3">Find your audience and speak to them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.4">Create for them, listen to them, and never sacrifice your message for anyone or anything. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.5">When something isn't working, look at your data and make smart adjustments to give your content the best chance to be discovered and watched. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.6">This is the YouTube Formula. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.7">Use it, and watch the magic happen.</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="c20.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="b01.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
