<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>FOREWORD</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="f04.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="f06.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="foreword" role="doc-foreword" aria-labelledby="f04_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="f04_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xiii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xiii" class="calibre13"></span><a id="fm4" class="calibre5"></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">FOREWORD</span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="flast01-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="flast01-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">Everyone should have a YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.2">Literally everyone, but especially brands. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.3">When I see brands that don't have a presence on YouTube, I think they're insane. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.4">It's unfathomable that anyone isn't capitalizing on the opportunity there. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.5">It's the most coveted job in America, and with good reason. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.6">It is quite literally a gold mine.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">When I was a kid, I watched YouTube all the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">It was always my dream job. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">I didn't want to be an astronaut or a doctor—I couldn't envision a world where I wasn't a YouTuber. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">I started my channel in 2012 and only got 40 subscribers my first year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.5">Now I have one of the fastest growing channels in the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.6">I gained more than 15 million subscribers in 2019 alone with just over 4 billion video views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.7">And it's still growing every day.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">If you are just getting started on YouTube, do not expect to pull any type of viewership in your first year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">If this isn't something you can accept, don't start. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">But if you can, then you need to do this: make 100 videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">It doesn't matter what they are because they will be terrible, but do something you like doing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.5">Your first 10 videos will be garbage. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.6">Then make 10 more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.7">These will also be garbage, and so will the next 10. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.8">But eventually, things will start to improve. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.9">You'll get better little by little. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.10">The best way to improve your content is to make content and see what people like.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">Then you'll notice something with your 101st video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">It will be in a whole different league from your first video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.3">You will still be a long way from good content, but it will be better than your first video was. </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xiv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xiv" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">It took me hundreds of videos over several years before I got good at it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">I had been making YouTube videos for two years and still didn't make good quality videos, even though I thought they were good at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">I was like so many creators: I thought the algorithm hated me because I wasn't getting subscribers and views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">But in reality, my content wasn't good enough. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.5">In fact, my videos were horrible, like most YouTube videos are. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.6">Most YouTubers have their priorities backward. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.7">They spend all their time thinking about the algorithm in their first hundred videos when they should really be thinking about how to make better content geared toward the viewer.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">Unless you're the rare YouTuber who has created content professionally, you're probably average (at best) at making content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">You don't go from entertaining nobody to entertaining millions in a day. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.3">It's hard work and a slow progressive workup, and it should be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.4">Because if you got millions of viewers overnight, you wouldn't know how to handle them.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">Every video is your competitor, so you have to keep putting in the effort to keep your content relevant and competitive. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">Viewers have to pick between videos every time they go to YouTube, and they'll choose the better video without a second thought. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.3">Make your video the better video.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">If a video from your channel from six months ago doesn't make you want to barf because of how much better you are at making content now, you're doing it wrong. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.2">I can't even stand watching my videos from six months ago because I am so much better at making content now. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.3">I can see how bad my old videos are. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.4">They could have been so much better! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.5">I'm depressed even thinking about those videos.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">There is a huge opportunity on YouTube for brands. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">If every brand knew what I know, they could get a hundred times the viewership they get on television for the same cost. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">They should be giving creators like me their advertising budget to make YouTube videos around their brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.4">I'll give you an example. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.5">If I was Coca‐Cola, I </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xv" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">could build a pyramid of a million Coca‐Cola cans. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">Or I could make a video called, “I Filled My Friend's House with a Million Cans of Coca‐Cola.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">These are both banger ideas that would get a ton of views if done right. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">(This was free, Coca‐Cola; next time you can pay me, lol.) Videos like these could lead to millions upon millions more return than TV‐spends, and it's exponentially cheaper. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.5">And seriously, who really watches TV commercials anyway. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.6">Everyone picks up their phones during commercials.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">If brands want to get real visibility, they have to get off of TV. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">What do you think people do—especially anyone under the age of 30—when the ads start rolling on TV? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">They pull out their phones and quit paying attention! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">They're not watching your commercial! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">Their attention has been moved to Twitter. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.6">SnapChat. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.7">YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.8">TikTok. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.9">Tweets spike during TV commercials. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.10">And people don't put their phones down until the commercials are over and their show or sporting event comes back on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.11">Three times fewer people skip a brand deal on YouTube than they do on TV, because people are usually watching from their phones. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.12">They don't have a second phone to grab when they come across an ad or brand deal on YouTube, so they watch it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.13">And they're watching a YouTuber they watch all the time, so they are also less likely to skip because they trust these YouTubers.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">I have more eyeballs on my content every week than the Super Bowl. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">And I have a personal connection with my viewers who have built trust in me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">This audience trust value is worth so much more than an impersonal celebrity or athlete appearance in a TV commercial. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">Brands shell out more than $5 million for 30 seconds crammed in with a bunch of other ads during the Super Bowl. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">With YouTubers like me, you could get 10 to 15 minutes of undivided attention centered on your brand for way cheaper. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.6">Then you can get the viewers to go watch more videos and interact with your brand in other ways if you're really smart about it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.7">It's a no‐brainer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.8">You're quite literally insane if you're not capitalizing on the opportunity here.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xvi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xvi" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">Business execs think they know more than the YouTuber, especially if the YouTuber is very young. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">They want to control their integration, giving YouTubers a list of talking points to read verbatim with a call to action at the end. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">While this works to an extent, brands would convert exponentially more and see greater brand awareness and exposure if they let the YouTubers be themselves. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.4">A brand </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">should</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1"> say, “Here's a bunch of money, do what you do to connect with your viewers … as you've done on literally hundreds of videos with hundreds of millions of views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.2">Do what you think would work best to get our brand talked about or our product sold. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.3">We trust you.”</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">Brands who give the creative license to YouTubers and let them talk naturally like they normally would with their audience are getting more brand exposure and ROI than they could in any other way, guaranteed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.2">And they should quit focusing on views but on what kind of impression they left. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.3">Will they remember you? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.4">Or will they hear another sleazy sales pitch?</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">Let me give you an example of the power of a YouTuber. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">I created an app called Finger On the App. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">I announced on my Instagram, Twitter, and SnapChat that everyone who downloaded and put their “finger on the app” at a certain time would have the chance to win $25,000. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.4">All you had to do was be the last person with your finger still on the app. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.5">The app was only available on iPhones and only in America. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.6">Even with these limitations, and without even trying, I had 1.5 million people install the app. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.7">I hadn't even promoted it on my YouTube channel, which at the time had more than 37 million subscribers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.8">In contrast, a newcomer to the mobile video world, Quibi, launched around the same time as my app, but they had a $1.7 billion budget. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.9">Guess how many installs they got? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.10">Only 300,000 on the first day.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">Finger On the App was inherently cool, so people talked about it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">It naturally went viral. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">This is how businesses should pitch things. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.4">Change your mentality from wanting to get the most views </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xvii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xvii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">to wanting to be the most talked about. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.2">My app was trending everywhere. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.3">I created a social footprint. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.4">And it all happened because I owned the app myself and had the control to spread the message my way. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.5">Brands come along and think they know better, but they would be so much more successful if they let YouTubers do what they do best. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.6">We know how to go viral. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.7">We know this digital world inherently because it's what we've lived and breathed our whole lives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.8">We know how to get your brand talked about naturally. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.9">This is way more powerful than a pointless view.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">YouTube isn't going anywhere. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">Google's parent company Alphabet and Google's Android operating system funnel so much crazy traffic to Google‐owned YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.3">These companies have so much power and an unfathomable amount of cash that YouTube can't be a fad because of this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.4">It's worth putting effort into something with such secure staying power. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.5">A lot of YouTube content is subpar now, but people will start to figure it out and it will be more competitive and expensive as time goes on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.6">Figure it out now.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">If you picked up this book, it's because you're already on YouTube or you are thinking about being on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">Hopefully I've helped you understand that you absolutely should be on YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">You'd be nuts not to be. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.4">The opportunity to make money, grow a business, and spread a message is so huge, whether you're a regular person like me or a big brand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.5">And this book has every element you'll need to do just that.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">I first met Derral Eves in Dallas, Texas, for the sole purpose of talking about YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">I was working hard to achieve my dream of becoming the world's biggest YouTuber when I came across Derral's YouTube channel. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">I knew I had to meet him because he knew stuff I needed to know. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">So I messaged him, and I jumped on a plane. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.5">We've been YouTube data best buds together ever since.</span></p>
<p id="flast01-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">Derral has pulled tens of billions of views on YouTube and even on other platforms because of his deep understanding of algorithms </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xviii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xviii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">and the viewer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">He owns VidSummit, the #1 YouTube data conference in the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.3">Only one or two other people in the entire world understand YouTube on the level that Derral does. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.4">I have one of the top three most‐watched channels on YouTube, and I still talk about YouTube data and strategy with Derral because nobody is on the same wavelength as he is. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.5">Whether you're a creator or a brand, you can learn how to be successful on YouTube by reading Derral's book. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.6">Be open to what he can teach you, whether you have five subscribers or five million. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.7">Because remember, you should be improving at every level, always making better content. </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">The YouTube Formula</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1"> will help you do that.</span></p>
<p class="right" id="flast01-line-0001"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">MrBeast</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="f04.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="f06.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
