<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>INTRODUCTION</title>
    <!-- kobo-style -->
    <script xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" type="text/javascript" src="../js/kobo.js"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../lzq0570s.html">The YouTube Formula
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Derral Eves

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="f05.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction" aria-labelledby="f05_1" class="calibre2">
<header class="calibre11">
<h1 id="f05_1" class="calibre12"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xix" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xix" class="calibre13"></span><a id="fm5" class="calibre5"></a><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.1.1">INTRODUCTION</span></h1>
</header>
<section aria-label="chapter opening" class="calibre2"><span id="fintro-sec-0001" class="calibre"></span>
<p id="fintro-para-0001" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.1">A magical ice‐cream‐pooping unicorn made me write this book. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.2">That's not where it started, but it's what pushed me over the edge. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.2.3">If you think this makes me sound a little crazy, let me explain.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0002" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.1">It was 1999. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.2">I had recently graduated with a degree in advertising and marketing, and I had a stable job with benefits and potential for advancement. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.3">But then … I quit. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.4">It wasn't the right career path for me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.5">I wanted to start my own business and create my own future. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.6">This felt crazy because my wife and I had our first baby, Ellie, that year, and I felt the pressure to provide for my family. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.7">Keeping a steady job and building savings would have been the safe thing to do, but instead, I spent all our money on the latest Macintosh computer and the software it needed (it would have been cheaper to go with a PC! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.8">Dang you, Steve Jobs). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.3.9">I was determined to be a successful business owner and ready to take on the world … from my kitchen table workstation at home.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0003" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.1">I spent days coming up with my company info, designing a website, and making my own business card. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.2">I just knew I would be a great entrepreneur. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.3">But after only two weeks, my wife, Carolyn, let me know that my office needed to move from the family table where she fed the baby and where there were spills aplenty. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.4">She had gotten a degree in accounting and had a really good job and had put me through school, but we both wanted her to be able to stay home with Ellie and our future children. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.5">Carolyn was my business partner—she did payroll, invoicing, and bookkeeping. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.4.6">We discussed </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xx" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xx" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.1">where the company was going and how we could get money coming in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.5.2">I needed to find clients to start bringing in the money so Carolyn wouldn't have to go back to work.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0004" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.1">My first order of business, though, was to move my work space. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.2">This took me to Staples to buy a desk for my computer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.3">I was admiring all the things I wanted for my new business, walking down the aisle with color laser printers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.4">If only I could convince my business partner‐wife that I needed to buy one of these beauties! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.5">A fancy printer could help me show future clients work samples for ads I could make for them. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.6">My tech‐geek daydream was interrupted by a man asking me a question about printers. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.7">He introduced himself as Chuck and was wondering if I could help him with picking a color printer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.8">I explained the difference between the two printers in question because I knew all their specs—these were printers I wanted to buy for my business, too. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.9">I didn't have the money for a printer because I didn't have any clients. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.10">I recommended the more expensive printer because of its print capabilities and less expensive toner. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.11">He said, “I've been coming to Staples for years, and you are the best employee I've ever talked to.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.12">I informed him that I didn't work for Staples (which surprised him because I was wearing a red polo shirt and khakis—the classic Staples employee outfit). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.13">“Are you sure?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.14">he asked. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.15">I convinced him by telling my story about starting my own business doing graphic design and websites. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.16">Wouldn't you know, he had recently started his own company called 1001 Business Cards and was looking for a designer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.17">He hired me and my company on the spot to design his website and business cards. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.18">How serendipitous! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.19">I walked out of that Staples with a desk for $200 and a check for $300 from my first client, a $100 net profit. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.20">“That was easy!” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.21">in true Staples fashion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.6.22">Owning a business was going to be a walk in the park.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0005" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.1">I couldn't wait to go home and share my first success with Carolyn. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.7.2">My confidence soared and I knew I could do anything I set </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxi" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.1">my mind to. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.2">However, only a few months later, my confidence had morphed into a feeling of uncertainty. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.3">I was going nowhere. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.4">I was barely making enough money to pay some of the bills and feed my family. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.5">We were dipping too much into our meager saving account. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.8.6">I needed more clients and fast.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-117" class="calibre2"><span id="fintro-sec-0002" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-117" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.9.1">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</span></h2>
<p id="fintro-para-0006" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.1">I went to see my dad to ask his advice. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.2">My dad had owned several businesses and done a lot of real estate ventures, and he had been successful at both. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.3">He gave me some simple advice, but it was some of the best advice I've ever received. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.4">He said, “You need to find a way to make more money with less time and with diverse streams of income.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.5">That was his standard way: he would always restate my problem before giving me fatherly advice. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.6">“Derral, don't think of solutions, think of the problem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.7">When you focus and obsess on the problem, the solution will present itself.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.8">Take a minute and let that soak in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.9">Einstein believed that our ability to identify problems was in direct proportion to the quality of the solutions we generate. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.10">He said, “If I had an hour to solve a problem I'd spend 55 minutes thinking about the problem and five minutes thinking about solutions.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.10.11">I believed Einstein's words, but I really trusted my dad.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0007" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.1">I was determined to figure out what I was supposed to do by focusing on my problem, which was this: I needed more clients. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.2">I took the next morning to internalize what my dad had said and identified the problems that were keeping me from diversifying my income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.3">I made a list of the problems associated with having only one client. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.4">I thought of every problem I might encounter that next week, month, and year if I continued on the path I was on. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.5">When I combed through my list, the solution presented itself to me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.11.6">I had a list of businesses and all of their contact information sitting in a pile of business cards on my desk.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0008" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.1">As an independent graphic designer, I created new business cards for my only client, Chuck, at 1001 Business Cards. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.2">He paid me $10 a card. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.3">Normally, I would have had zero contact with those businesses ordering cards. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.4">Chuck would get a new client, collect their logo, their picture, and their design requirements, and send them to me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.5">I would design their card and email it to Chuck. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.6">After client approval, Chuck would have the cards printed and delivered. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.7">There was no reason why I would have interacted with these businesses. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.8">But now I had a plan to diversify. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.9">I wanted to sell them a five‐page website design package for $299. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.10">I started cold calling these businesses with my offer. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.11">After spending a week calling every business card that I had designed, there were only two takers out of 200 calls. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.12.12">Selling over the phone was difficult; telemarketing wasn't for me.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0009" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.1">I needed a new plan, so I refocused on the problem. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.2">I analyzed my talking points, learning from my telemarketing experience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.3">I devised a new strategy that would take the process from a cold call to a warm lead, but it meant I needed to meet with these people in person. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.4">I asked Chuck if I could hand deliver the completed business cards to these businesses and offer my further services for ads and websites. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.5">He gave me the thumbs up and go‐ahead, which landed me the opportunity to meet face‐to‐face with people who could be potential clients for my own business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.13.6">These were the perfect candidates for businesses that needed a web designer.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0010" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.1">When I'd present the finished cards to the owner or manager of the business, they were always impressed with the quality of the card. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.2">We didn't do simple cards; we printed in quality full‐color graphics with all the bells and whistles of a premium business card, which was uncommon then. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.3">As soon as I saw the moment of excitement or approval of the product, I'd pounce. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.4">Here was my window to get a new client! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.5">I told them I was the card designer, I was glad they liked my work, and I could do a lot more for their business by helping them create a website. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.14.6">I told them that every business needed a </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxiii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxiii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.1">website—this was the future in marketing because leads and sales were going digital. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.2">It actually was a tough sell, because most businesses in my area were still on dial‐up Internet at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.3">If you are unfamiliar with dial‐up Internet, let me explain it this way for you youngsters: dial‐up Internet ran at 56/K (kilobits) per second. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.4">Not megabits. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.15.5">Which means that if you wanted to download today's latest update of </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.16.1">Fortnite</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.17.1">, it would take you 30 days, 22 hours, and 3 minutes, assuming your connection wasn't interrupted and you didn't have to start all over again.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0011" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.1">You could imagine that people didn't see the value in spending money on something so slow and widely unused, but I would start using my sales pitch. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.2">It really was going to be the way of the future. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.3">Even if only 10% of the city was using the Internet to look for a service, their business was guaranteed to take that call if their competitors weren't online yet. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.4">Having a website would give them a place to host frequently asked questions, share a bio about the business and/or the owner, and, most importantly, generate leads. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.18.5">It was a digital sales brochure and the future of marketing.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0012" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.1">This new plan worked almost every time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.2">I was converting nearly every business card client into a website client. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.3">I got more than 100 clients originally, plus referrals at every turn. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.4">And as a bonus, they would need a second business card printed because the first one I designed hadn't had a website listed on it! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.5">Score! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.6">I sold these updated business cards for $20, helping my original client, Chuck, and giving him additional clientele. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.19.7">He had been my first and only client, and I became his biggest client over the years, bringing in lots of business for him.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-118" class="calibre2"><span id="fintro-sec-0003" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-118" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.20.1">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</span></h2>
<p id="fintro-para-0013" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.1">But website design was one‐off work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.21.2">I only got paid once by each client, which meant that I was always hustling and trying to make a </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxiv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxiv" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.1">sale. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.2">There were a lot of ups and downs, and it was starting to wear on me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.3">It was time to visit Dad again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.4">I told my dad of my predicament, and he smiled as he said, “Remember the advice I gave you?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.5">Of course, I did. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.6">I had gone from one client to hundreds of clients, even getting other designers to help me so I could save time while bringing in more money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.7">Dear old Dad smiled and said, “Well, I only gave you half of the advice. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.8">You needed to learn that first part before you were ready to learn the next. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.9">You've been banging your head for some months now, right? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.10">There are a lot of ups and downs?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.11">It was like he was reading my mind. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.12">“You've been losing sleep, too, haven't you?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.13">How did he know? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.14">“Now you are ready to understand the second part: Success is all about acquisition and retention of clients and having them come back wanting more. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.15">You got the acquisition down. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.16">But how is your retention? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.17">How many clients pay you monthly?” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.18">I explained the one‐and‐done nature of website design. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.19">Every single client paid me once. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.20">Dad said, “You'll always have ups and downs and sleeplessness without retention. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.21">Figure out retention—how you can keep them wanting more, and you can figure out success.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.22.22">If you haven't realized it yet, my dad is a genius.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0014" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.1">So I analyzed my problems again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.2">What could I do differently? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.3">I came to the conclusion that there were two ways I could get recurring monthly payments from clients: hosting and ranking, that is, Internet marketing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.4">All websites needed a host, which required monthly fees. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.5">So I started a hosting company called FatBoy Hosting. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.6">The name referred to the size of the hosting packages, not my personal weight (or did it …?). </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.7">We had everything from small to XXXL to Blimpie‐sized packages. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.8">I also knew that companies paid monthly for Internet marketing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.9">They needed to have websites get ranked in directories and other services. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.10">So I started doing website ranking for companies that paid me monthly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.11">My business soon stabilized and started producing residual income. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.12">And I got more sleep. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.23.13">Thanks, Dad.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0015" class="calibre14"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxv" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.1">I continued to build websites for clients, hosted their website, and helped them get ranked on the relatively new Internet, or the World Wide Web as it was more commonly called then. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.2">I used search directories like Yahoo, Excite, Ask Jeeves, and AltaVista. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.3">“Google” wasn't yet a household name. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.4">I did this for several years, trying to expand my company. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.5">In 2005, I had hired a few new employees and needed to purchase some inexpensive office furniture, so I went to Craigslist to look for a good bargain. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.24.6">When you're fresh out of college and excited about a glowing future in entrepreneurship, you buy your office desk brand new at Staples, but when you've been around the block a few times and the shine has worn down, you save money and buy secondhand goods (or even better, get them for free) that work just the same!</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0016" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.1">While I was on Craigslist, I saw a listing for a contest to win a free new iPod Nano for anyone who could get people to join a new website called YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.2">The previous iPod on the market was the size of a brick and held a weighty 1,000 songs! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.3">Plus, if you threw it at someone you might kill them because it was heavy like a brick. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.4">Steve Jobs had just announced this new iPod Nano, which was the size of a pack of gum (much lighter than a brick) and held even more songs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.5">I wanted that iPod! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.6">I signed up for YouTube, spammed all my contacts and clients to do the same, and even created new emails for myself personally to increase my chances. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.25.7">I became one of the lucky winners of the latest and greatest iPod on the market.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0017" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.1">But then I started watching videos on YouTube and was blown away by the quality of the videos and the lack of the dreaded “buffering” load time so common then. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.2">I was hooked! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.3">I learned that you could embed videos from YouTube to any website, and people could play them wherever they were in the world. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.4">BAM, an idea came to me: I could upsell my 865 clients to embed a video on their website. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.5">It would be so easy, it would be like printing my own money. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.26.6">No </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxvi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxvi" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.1">one was doing this. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.27.2">I could be the first to put videos on my clients' websites.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0018" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.1">In November 2006, YouTube was purchased by Google for $1.65 billion. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.2">Naturally, the platform's videos started to gain ranking traction on Google searches—now that they owned it, of course they wanted to help it get noticed. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.3">At this time, my job was to keep my clients' websites ranked as #1 on the front page of Google. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.4">But there was an anti‐spam czar at Google named Matt Cutts who made my life a living hell. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.5">Matt Cutts was my nemesis. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.6">My whole day was spent trying to figure out hacks to game the system and get my clients' websites highly ranked, and Matt and his team would find exploits to the system and shut them down every time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.28.7">I felt like I was stuck on a roller coaster with no end in sight.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0019" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.1">I was sick of fighting with Matt Cutts, and I was sick of getting the dreaded phone calls from my unsatisfied clients every time their ranking dropped. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.2">This was driving me insane. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.3">So I focused on the problem again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.4">I looked at my business and asked myself what would be the easiest way to accomplish what I needed to do. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.5">I had an epiphany: if I stayed in line with Google's goals, I would get ranked every time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.6">I didn't have to fight the system (or Matt Cutts) anymore. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.7">It sounds so simple now, but it was a big aha moment for me at the time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.8">I looked at everything that Google was trying to accomplish. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.9">I read every blog post and watched every talk by Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and Google CEO Eric Schmidt. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.10">I started to listen to what they really wanted. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.11">They talked a lot about organic ranking and tracking. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.12">They also talked about the future of Google, with artificial intelligence that would look for patterns to predict what people would want. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.29.13">I made sure I met all of the requirements when it came to what Google wanted.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0020" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.1">It was then that I noticed some patterns from my clients' data. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.2">Remember the 865 videos I made and embedded on their websites? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.30.3">Most of them were on the front page of Google without any hack </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxvii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxvii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.1">or help. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.2">WOW! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.3">You mean, I didn't have to fight Matt Cutts? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.4">And I didn't have to get frantic calls from clients? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.5">Sign me up! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.6">All I needed to do was make videos that were search‐friendly. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.7">So I created a plan of attack. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.8">I made a series of videos for a few select businesses and focused on generating a lead. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.9">My brother‐in‐law is an optometrist, and I asked him to let me market his practice with videos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.31.10">I was able to rank for some hard key terms that would have taken a lot of effort for a website but showed up easily in the results in a matter of hours when I used videos. </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.32.1">Crazy!</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.1"> To make sure this wasn't a fluke, I tried it with a second business, a personal injury attorney. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.33.2">We got the same results: a high Google ranking and the phone ringing with leads.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0021" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.1">I had done it; I had solved one of the biggest problems for my company, and I wanted to go all in on video and YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.2">I needed to become the expert helping businesses by generating leads and sales with video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.3">I kept my big clients who were paying thousands of dollars a month, but I sold everything else. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.4">It was my point of no return. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.5">Like when Spanish commander Cortés sank his ships and conquered the Aztecs. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.6">In sinking the ships, he gave himself one option: succeed or die. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.7">There would be no means to turn back. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.8">Likewise, I sold all my website and Internet marketing clients to an SEO company in Salt Lake City, with the clause that I could keep all the video marketing work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.9">They agreed because they didn't know what I knew, that videos ranked in Google without any blackhat hack or strategy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.10">They were being promoted because YouTube was owned by Google. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.11">Google wanted videos to be found, so they moved more users to YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.34.12">So I shifted my focus from website creation and marketing to video creation and marketing … and I watched my clients' rankings and revenue skyrocket because these videos were ranking on page one of Google.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0022" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.1">By this time, I was itching with excitement for what I was witnessing in the evolution of marketing: online video was going to be a big deal, and I wanted to be a part of it. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.35.2">Video power outweighed </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxviii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxviii" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.1">word power by an overwhelming margin. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.2">Viewers were much more likely to do what advertisers wanted them to do—pick up the phone and call, make a purchase, or sign up for a service—after watching a video. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.3">And these videos could be made by regular people who were getting incredible distribution to millions of viewers … using inexpensive camera equipment. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.36.4">This had never been done outside the realm of television studios and movie sets.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0023" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.1">In my videos, I hyperfocused to dial in messaging with the goal of getting the phone to ring. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.2">It was so important to know everything about the person making the phone call. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.3">I would grill my brother‐in‐law and his office staff on all the things people would ask and what they needed help with. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.4">Then I would take those questions and turn them into talking points for the video with clear solutions on how we could help. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.5">I asked a ton of questions to get a good handle on the niche and what would work. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.6">Then I would make 10 solid videos that would show up in search. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.7">Once the messaging was working—the video was ranking and the phone was ringing—I would go to another city and do it all over again. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.37.8">(I only worked with one business per niche in each city.)</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0024" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.1">I had started with my optometrist brother‐in‐law, but I replicated my work in that niche hundreds of times in hundreds of locations. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.2">When I got a system down for one niche, I could rinse and repeat for any client in that niche. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.3">Why re‐create the wheel when I could slap a new logo on what was already working? </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.4">I had my systems dialed in so well. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.5">The clients were happy, which meant that I was happy. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.6">Matt Cutts was no longer the enemy; he was my best buddy! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.38.7">Talk about a win‐win.</span></p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="head-2-119" class="calibre2"><span id="fintro-sec-0004" class="calibre"></span>
<h2 id="head-2-119" class="calibre7"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.39.1">Uniting People around Their Passion</span></h2>
<p id="fintro-para-0025" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.40.1">At that time, my relationship with YouTube consisted of creating videos and uploading them to YouTube for the sole purpose of getting </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxix" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxix" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.1">a Google ranking for lead generation. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.2">Little did I know that this was a fraction of the potential of YouTube. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.41.3">There was a huge opportunity to reach millions around the world, and I was about to witness this with my next client.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0026" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.1">One day I got a phone call from one of my clients, Wade Beatty, who had a lead for me. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.2">Wade owned a local pest control company, and I had done some successful video marketing for him. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.3">He had gone to spray a piano store for cockroaches, and the store owner asked if he knew anybody who did YouTube, websites, and marketing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.4">Wade said, “You have to talk to Derral.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.5">So I talked with the store owner, Paul Anderson, who showed me the amazing videos they were making to try to sell expensive pianos. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.42.6">They put grand pianos in beautiful locations outside—on top of mountains, in the desert, in a forest—and the music videos were amazing.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0027" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.1">I asked Paul what his goals were with his store “ThePianoGuys.” </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.2">He told me he wanted to make enough money from his YouTube videos that he didn't have to work at the store anymore. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.3">He didn't actually want to sell pianos, he wanted to make awesome videos that people would love. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.4">With the talent of Jon Schmidt at the piano, Steven Sharp Nelson on the cello, Al van der Beek producing the music, and Tel Stewart doing the videography and editing, they had the recipe for success. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.43.5">Their musical passion turned into a channel, and the channel turned into a business that was making so much money that they didn't need the store anymore.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0028" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.1">When ThePianoGuys’ YouTube channel exploded, I was able to be a part of the true power of YouTube for the first time. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.2">They had had minimal subscribers when we started, and they had grown to more than 1.8 million subscribers in 12 months and had over a hundred million video views. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.3">They had developed a passionate, dedicated audience. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.4">(They never sold a single piano! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.44.5">But they did sell out stadiums worldwide.) This success shifted my focus 100% to working with creators to help them build YouTube audiences, and I </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxx" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxx" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.1">never looked back. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.45.2">Yes, I sank my ships again, and I haven't regretted it for a second.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0029" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.1">Uniting people around a similar passion was exhilarating. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.2">It was an intense realization that I could help people find their own dedicated global audiences. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.3">It didn't have to be confined to a geographical location like my previous work had been, and it didn't have to be all about business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.46.4">In fact, it </span><i class="calibre6"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.47.1">had</span></i><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.1"> to be about more than the business. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.2">You could find passionate followers in every corner of the Internet and bring them together around your content. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.3">This was about more than generating leads. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.4">It was the perfect crossover between money and passion, something I had been missing all those years leading up to this moment. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.5">I had learned a lot about algorithms and rankings and the mechanisms that worked, but now I could see the other side of the coin. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.6">Creating content to inspire, educate, or entertain was the missing link. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.7">Everything I had learned about algorithms, people, and messaging came together in this new moment of clarity. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.8">Audience development was my thing. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.48.9">I realized I was really good at creating a community around content, so I dedicated my career to learning what makes an audience click.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0030" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.1">To date, I have created and developed a plan and content strategy for 25 different YouTube channels. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.2">I have helped them grow from zero subscribers to more than a million subscribers each. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.3">With my formula, we've generated more than 59 billion video views in total. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.49.4">I've seen this change so many people's lives: they not only become full‐time YouTube creators, but they build sustainable businesses and brands.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0031" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.1">For businesses, this can be a game changer for your bottom line. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.2">Here's where the magical ice‐cream‐pooping unicorn comes in. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.3">I was executive producer on one of the most viral video ads of all time, and it was for a step‐stool called Squatty Potty. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.4">It showcased this magical unicorn demonstrating the advantages to using the toilet stool while “pooping” ice cream. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.50.5">Yes, the stool is a real product (unfortunately, </span><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_xxxi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="xxxi" class="calibre16"></span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.1">the unicorn is not), and it did more than $45 million in sales in one year. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.2">That's a powerful ad! </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.51.3">After I watched its success, I knew it was time to share what I know about YouTube so that others could learn how to tap into this resource as well.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0032" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.1">Don't hesitate to jump in with both feet as I teach you all things YouTube: the ins and outs of the platform, the opportunities waiting for you, and the formula for doing it right. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.2">You might even have to throw out some things you thought were true about YouTube, but no need to worry; you'll relearn quickly and have the solutions on hand. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.52.3">Reach for this book as a reference as you move forward to create amazing content and get the results you've always wanted.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0033" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.1">I've been on YouTube since 2005 and have seen how it has evolved and how it can change a business, and more importantly, how it can change people's lives. </span><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.53.2">YouTube is one of the most powerful platforms we have to connect with the world and grow an audience using video.</span></p>
<p id="fintro-para-0034" class="calibre14"><span xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" class="kobospan" id="kobo.54.1">I can't wait to show you how to harness the power of YouTube … let's get started!</span></p>
</section>
</section>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../lzq0570s.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="f01.xhtml">Praise for The YouTube Formula</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f02.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f03.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f04.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f05.xhtml">Foreword</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="f06.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-117">Do You Know What Your Problem Is?</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-118">Your Client's Success Is Your Success</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="f06.xhtml#head-2-119">Uniting People around Their Passion</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p01.xhtml">PART I: The Platform</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c01.xhtml">1 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: A YouTube History Lesson</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c02.xhtml">2 The YouTube Ecosystem</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-1">Beware of Copyright</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-2">Ad Revenue Sharing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c02.xhtml#head-2-3">An Evolving, Thriving System</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c03.xhtml">3 The YouTube AI: A Deep Learning Machine</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-4">The AI Evolution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-5">Diving Deep into the Deep Learning Machine</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c03.xhtml#head-2-6">A Machine at Work … and It's Working</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c04.xhtml">4 The Algorithm Breakdown</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-7">Part 1: Gathering and Using Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-8">Part 2: Algorithms with an “S”</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c04.xhtml#head-2-9">It's Not YouTube's Fault</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p02.xhtml">PART II: The Opportunity</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c05.xhtml">5 Why Most YouTube Channels Fail to Succeed</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-10">Become a Student of the Data</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-11">The Comparison and Copycat Traps</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-12">Course Correction and Consistency</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-13">Getting the Right Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-14">The Wrong Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-15">YouTube Superstitions</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-16">Burnout</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c05.xhtml#head-2-17">Focus</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c06.xhtml">6 Make Money Partnering with YouTube</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-18">Joining the Partner Program</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-19">The Money Logistics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-20">Additional YPP Revenue Opportunities</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-21">Make Even More with Ad Revenue</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c06.xhtml#head-2-22">YPP AdSense Is Just the Beginning</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c07.xhtml">7 Use Your Influence to Generate Big Money</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-23">Why Not You?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-24">Merchandising</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-25">Brand Integrations and Influencer Marketing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-26">Business Ownership</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c07.xhtml#head-2-27">Limitless Opportunities</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c08.xhtml">8 The Real Power of Your Influence: Making a Difference</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-28">Planting a Forest of Influence</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c08.xhtml#head-2-29">Raising Money and Awareness</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c09.xhtml">9 How Businesses Extend Their Reach and Drive Revenue</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-30">Demand = Opportunity</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-31">Think Bigger</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-32">Break into Big Brands</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-33">Optimize with Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-34">Take Smart Risks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-35">Think Evergreen</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-36">Be Your Own Influencer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-37">Embrace the Digital World</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-38">Apply Omnichannel Attribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-39">Use Paid Acquisition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c09.xhtml#head-2-40">Learn Strategies and Use Them</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="p03.xhtml">PART III: The YouTube Formula</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="c10.xhtml">10 The Data‐Driven, Human‐Centered Formula</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-41">YouTube Sixth Sense</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-42">Know Your Goal, Know Your Why</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-43">Become Aligned with YouTube's Goal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-44">Traffic and Momentum: Decoding the Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c10.xhtml#head-2-45">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c11.xhtml">11 Identify Your Audience</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-46">Don't Make Videos for Yourself</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-47">Find the Sweet Spot</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-48">Not All Channels Are Created Equal</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-49">The AI Needs to Know Your Audience, Too</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-50">But … How Do I Learn about My Audience?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c11.xhtml#head-2-51">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c12.xhtml">12 Recon and Research</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-52">Reconnaissance</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-53">Research</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-54">The Ultimate Unicorn: Jesus</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c12.xhtml#head-2-55">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c13.xhtml">13 Content Is King</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-56">Ads with Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-57">What Is Content, Exactly?</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-58">Pattern of Narration: Storytelling</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-59">Making Your Content Pop</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-60">Authenticity and Emotional Connection</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-61">Content for Sales</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-62">It Works Across the Board</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-63">Make a Lasting Impact</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c13.xhtml#head-2-64">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c14.xhtml">14 Feedback Is Queen</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-65">Human Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-66">Data Feedback</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-67">Human + Data Feedback: A Winning Combo</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c14.xhtml#head-2-68">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c15.xhtml">15 Title and Thumbnail: Success Starts with a Click</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-69">Grabbing Attention Visually: The Science</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-70">Thumbnail Strategies</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-71">Video Titles</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-72">Downloadable Tools for Title Generation</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c15.xhtml#head-2-73">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c16.xhtml">16 Engaging Viewers' Attention So They Watch More</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-74">Respect Your Viewer's Commitment</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-75">Engagement and Disengagement Triggers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-76">How to Read the Metrics</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-77">Average Views per Viewer</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-78">The 50% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-79">The 30% Rule</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-80">Maintain the Value Proposition</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-81">Message First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-82">Pattern Interrupts</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-83">Mastering Engagement</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c16.xhtml#head-2-84">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c17.xhtml">17 Creating a YouTube Content Strategy</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-85">Part One: Strategize for Your Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-86">Part Two: Strategize to Leverage the Algorithm</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c17.xhtml#head-2-87">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c18.xhtml">18 Building a Community around Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-88">Creation Story</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-89">Creed</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-90">Icons</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-91">Rituals</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-92">Sacred Words/Lexicon</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-93">Nonbelievers</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-94">Leader</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-95">Distribution</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-96">The Ninth Fundamental</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-97">The People Are the Brand</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c18.xhtml#head-2-98">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c19.xhtml">19 Optimizing, Launching, and Promoting Your Video</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-99">How to Upload a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-100">How to Optimize a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-101">How to Launch Content</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-102">How to Promote a Video</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-103">Promote Organically First</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-104">Paid Strategies to Grow an Audience</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-105">Paid Strategies to Sell</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c19.xhtml#head-2-106">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c20.xhtml">20 Tweaking Your Content</a>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-107">Real‐Time Tweaks versus Long‐Term Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-108">How to Determine Your Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-109">What to Do with Your Real‐Time Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-110">Have Backup Plans Ready</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-111">What to Do with Your Long‐Term Baselines</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-112">Split Testing</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-113">Small Tweaks</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-114">Just Do It</a>
            </li>
            <li>
              <a href="c20.xhtml#head-2-115">Action Exercise</a>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="c21.xhtml">21 Try, Fail, Analyze, Adjust: Your YouTube Success</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b01.xhtml">Appendix: Free YouTube Formula Bonus Companion Course</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b02.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b03.xhtml">This Is Not Your Normal Acknowledgement</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="b04.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="eula.xhtml">End User License Agreement</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="f05.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../lzq0570s.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="p01.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
