<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>part0035</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../w9g_eys6.html">The Fault in Our Stars
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    John Green

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="part0034.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="part0036.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<div id="id_5u6ClyeoTaW9T0uGwzubNw2714" class="class51">Acknowledgments</div>
<div class="class52">The author would like to acknowledge:</div>
<div class="class14">That disease and its treatment are treated fictitiously in this novel. For example, there is no such thing as Phalanxifor. I made it up, because I would like for it to exist. Anyone seeking an actual history of cancer ought to read <span class="class13">The Emperor of All Maladies</span> by Siddhartha Mukherjee. I am also indebted to <span class="class13">The Biology of Cancer</span> by Robert A. Weinberg, and to Josh Sundquist, Marshall Urist, and Jonneke Hollanders, who shared their time and expertise with me on medical matters, which I cheerfully ignored when it suited my whims.</div>
<div class="class14">Esther Earl, whose life was a gift to me and to many. I am grateful also to the Earl family—Lori, Wayne, Abby, Angie, Graham, and Abe—for their generosity and friendship. Inspired by Esther, the Earls have founded a nonprofit, This Star Won’t Go Out, in her memory. You can learn more at tswgo.org.</div>
<div class="class14">The Dutch Literature Foundation, for giving me two months in Amsterdam to write. I’m particularly grateful to Fleur van Koppen, Jean Cristophe Boele van Hensbroek, Janetta de With, Carlijn van Ravenstein, Margje Scheepsma, and the Dutch nerdfighter community.</div>
<div class="class14">My editor and publisher, Julie Strauss-Gabel, who stuck with this story through many years of twists and turns, as did an extraordinary team at Penguin. Particular thanks to Rosanne Lauer, Deborah Kaplan, Liza Kaplan, Elyse Marshall, Steve Meltzer, Nova Ren Suma, and Irene Vandervoort.</div>
<div class="class14">Ilene Cooper, my mentor and fairy godmother.</div>
<div class="class14">My agent, Jodi Reamer, whose sage counsel has saved me from countless disasters.</div>
<div class="class14">Nerdfighters, for being awesome.</div>
<div class="class14">Catitude, for wanting nothing more than to make the world suck less.</div>
<div class="class14">My brother, Hank, who is my best friend and closest collaborator.</div>
<div class="class14">My wife, Sarah, who is not only the great love of my life but also my first and most trusted reader. Also, the baby, Henry, to whom she gave birth. Furthermore, my own parents, Mike and Sydney Green, and parents-in-law, Connie and Marshall Urist.</div>
<div class="class14">My friends Chris and Marina Waters, who helped with this story at vital moments, as did Joellen Hosler, Shannon James, Vi Hart, the Venn diagramatically brilliant Karen Kavett, Valerie Barr, Rosianna Halse Rojas, and John Darnielle.</div>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../w9g_eys6.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="part0002.xhtml">Title Page</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0003.xhtml">Contents</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0004.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0006.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0009.xhtml">The Fault in Our Stars</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0009.xhtml#toc5_Chapter_One">Chapter One</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0010.xhtml">Chapter Two</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0011.xhtml">Chapter Three</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0012.xhtml">Chapter Four</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0013.xhtml">Chapter Five</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0014.xhtml">Chapter Six</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0015.xhtml">Chapter Seven</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0016.xhtml">Chapter Eight</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0017.xhtml">Chapter Nine</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0018.xhtml">Chapter Ten</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0019.xhtml">Chapter Eleven</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0020.xhtml">Chapter Twelve</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0021.xhtml">Chapter Thirteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0022.xhtml">Chapter Fourteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0023.xhtml">Chapter Fifteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0024.xhtml">Chapter Sixteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0025.xhtml">Chapter Seventeen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0026.xhtml">Chapter Eighteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0027.xhtml">Chapter Nineteen</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0028.xhtml">Chapter Twenty</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0029.xhtml">Chapter Twenty-One</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0030.xhtml">Chapter Twenty-Two</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0031.xhtml">Chapter Twenty-Three</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0032.xhtml">Chapter Twenty-Four</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0033.xhtml">Chapter Twenty-Five</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0034.xhtml">Author’s Note</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0035.xhtml">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0036.xhtml">Follow Penguin</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0037.xhtml">Copyright Page</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0034.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../w9g_eys6.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="part0036.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
